Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Mesoporous Al2O3 supports synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) improve VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance, with crystallization temperature affecting the distribution of surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction. The highest space time yield (STY) achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Surface acidity modifications, active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitate desorption of propene and inhibit deep dehydrogenation. Excessive Mg addition sharply decreases acidity, leading to loss of DDH activity. The V/SiO2 catalyst displays optimal catalytic performance, achieving a superior initial propene yield of 59.5% and stable propene selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, with a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion and propene selectivity, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, displays a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The role of other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear, and further work could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts. The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH, using Cr or Pt catalysts, faces toxicity and ecological harm issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, with active ZnOx species, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and doped ceria for enhanced selectivity, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve stability and recyclability. VOx-based catalysts and NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being optimized through electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, as evidenced by the role of potassium in minimizing the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity and the energy intensification advantage of oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To tackle the challenges of traditional PDH methods, which involve costly, scarce, or harmful Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts prone to coking and cracking, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM), researchers have developed a novel PDH approach. This innovative method employs a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) at lower temperatures, significantly reducing energy consumption. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, Sn as the promoter, and carbon nitride as the support, opens a new route for efficient propane utilization, addressing stability and recyclability issues while enhancing the value of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, overcoming traditional method limitations and meeting growing propylene demand. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH, highlighting the need for controlled conditions to prevent over-oxidation and achieve higher selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, showing activity and selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, with monoclinic ZrO2 outperforming tetragonal. Smaller crystallite sizes and the ability to release lattice oxygen create active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, overcoming deactivation issues and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are developed for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibit exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, particularly VOx/γ-Al2O3, are promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, mitigate deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups notably improve stability by reducing coke deposition, crucial for nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through strategies like using promoters (late transition metals, main-group metals, metal oxides) to resist coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, both oxidative and non-oxidative, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies for V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 address catalyst deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for PDH show long-term stability, high propane conversion, and propene selectivity. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a promising alternative. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, undermining performance (Quote 3). Strategies to address this include cofeeding reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn (Quote 7), modifying supports (Quote 8), adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT provide insights into deactivation mechanisms (Quote 11), aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand and production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts offer improved catalytic activity, reduced side reactions, and are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, offer optimal conditions for chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion has proven effective, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced role of acidity in PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional methods, PDH is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies target deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, addressing key production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to increase selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As noted, 'Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.' Innovative design strategies are crucial for addressing these uncertainties and enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propylene production method, addressing traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative PDH, combating deactivation issues to meet growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional propylene production methods, particularly in the context of increasing demand and changing energy landscapes. Challenges with noble metal catalysts and energy efficiency persist, prompting the exploration of alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which, however, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but poses overoxidation risks. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated, but issues like catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, like supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, stands as a feasible alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally-induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, encompassing active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been devised to boost catalytic stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area has shown that crystallization temperature impacts the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by affecting the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative techniques, like the direct co-assembly process for vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), enhance the interaction between V5+ species and silica support, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. The influence of gelation and calcination temperatures on VOx/SiO2 catalysts has been explored, showing improved performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers the nature of the support, as metal-support interactions and acid sites influence the formation of surface VOx species. The most active V species can be tuned by varying preparation methods. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, environmentally compatible and formed through reductive treatment, enhances propene productivity significantly while maintaining selectivity, offering a promising solution to catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH techniques must balance alkane conversion with alkene selectivity, as higher temperatures increase dehydrocyclization and coke formation, reducing alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux at dehydrogenation temperatures. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. However, achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, with VOx catalysts showing decreased selectivity at higher conversions. The nature of the VOx phase is critical, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 could lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking. Researchers are developing energy-efficient methods, exploring direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, used for the first time under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, overcoming issues of deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, operates at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, though active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, governing oxidative dehydrogenation, requires temperature control for high selectivity, as products are prone to further oxidation. Understanding and addressing these challenges is essential for advancing PDH as a sustainable propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Monoclinic ZrO2, with smaller crystallite sizes, outperforms tetragonal ZrO2 in propene production, making it a key strategy in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand and production constraints. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal for PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, demonstrates outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are highlighted as promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on controlling surface structure, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups enhance catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a critical factor in deactivation, thereby improving recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal. These aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robustness against high temperatures for long-term activity. Promoters, like late transition and main-group metals, and optimal metal-support interactions contribute to stability and recyclability, essential for commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts exhibit high activity, reduced carbon deposition, and full recovery potential through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, maintain propane conversion and propene selectivity over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have led to the prominence of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges, particularly the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which significantly impacts performance and stability. To address this, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored, including the use of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single Pt atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst recyclability and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring more sustainable and effective propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, serving as supports for ZnO catalysts, improve catalytic activity and stability, offering a promising solution for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), emerges as a crucial solution. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing the catalyst deactivation challenges and meeting the increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a crucial alternative for propylene production, addressing growing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, reflecting the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being tackled through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include optimizing particle size to increase active sites while managing the diversity of exposed atoms, which impacts selectivity and stability. Geometric and electronic structures play a critical role in adsorption configurations and the potential for side reactions, leading to catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies aim to optimize these structures to improve propylene selectivity and reduce coke formation, a primary cause of deactivation. The use of bimetallic compounds, modification of supports, and controlling reaction conditions are explored to inhibit deactivation, focusing on the balance between activity and selectivity. Insights into deactivation mechanisms are crucial for designing more stable PDH catalysts, and strategies such as tuning support acidity and controlling reaction conditions are being developed to enhance catalyst performance and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, meeting growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides, face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Key approaches include utilizing well-defined supported vanadium oxide catalysts, enhancing selectivity and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, as highlighted in critical literature reviews.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, directly addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and VOx/ZrO2 show promise due to high surface area and thermal stability, with ZrO2 enhancing V3+ species. Catalyst support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers environmental compatibility and superior performance. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as demonstrated in benchmark tests.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by offering energy efficiency. They face challenges with temperature and selectivity, but innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux are among the strategies. VOx and NiOx catalysts are critical, with ongoing research on electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation. Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases due to increased dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Direct dehydrogenation is energy-intensive, but oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower energy requirements. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, ensuring proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Addressing the limitations of costly and scarce Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which suffer from coking and cracking, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is developed for low-temperature propane dehydrogenation. This innovative approach reduces energy consumption and opens a new route for efficient propane utilization, overcoming catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. To address these, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group elements, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with surface oxygen, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Innovative strategies also involve single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, to balance activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts address deactivation by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase improve performance. The catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zr cation sites, crucial for propane activation, offering eco-friendly and cost-effective PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are pivotal. Active site isolation boosts performance, as a synthesized catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after extended use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, focusing on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and non-oxidative processes, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies for V-based catalysts, such as VOX-SiO2, VOX/Al2O3, and VOX/MCM-41, address catalyst deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts and VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, respectively, showed high activity, stability, and full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimizing gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 catalysts resulted in long-term stability over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles. These advancements make PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces the challenge of catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which significantly impacts performance and stability. To address this, innovative strategies are being explored, such as the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, enhancing stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques meet industrial propylene demand by directly converting propane, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, boosts stability and recyclability. These catalysts enhance activity, minimize side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, as demonstrated by a well-correlated increase in propene yield with the number of redox Cr sites. This approach not only improves recyclability but also caters to the changing global energy landscapes, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring effectiveness in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include optimizing particle sizes in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts to increase active sites while maintaining stability. The use of single-atom catalysts and alloying with promoters like Cu and Zn has shown promise in improving selectivity towards propylene and inhibiting side reactions that lead to coke formation. Modifying supports with metal oxides and adjusting reaction conditions by cofeeding H2 and CO2 can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. Preventing sintering through strong metal-support interactions and confinement effects in mesoporous materials maintains catalyst activity over multiple cycles. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for meeting industrial propylene demand, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Unspecified innovative catalyst design strategies are critical for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation, particularly in alternative metal oxides like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, poses a challenge due to fast deactivation and coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke but risking overoxidation, and CO2 consuming H2 but forming less heat. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, BiO3) and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion solutions, but require frequent regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative. Despite commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. Direct co-assembly of V/SiO2 catalysts ensures high dispersion and stability of VOx species. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. These approaches, focusing on support nature and metal-support interactions, tune the proportion and stability of active V species, significantly impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer environmental compatibility and enhanced performance. Defective OH groups play a key role in forming active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates triple the propene productivity under industrial conditions, showcasing its potential in overcoming deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high surface area and oxygen flux, are crucial. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, considering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, addresses the need for sustainable propylene production methods, reducing energy consumption and offering a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. This endothermic process, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at around 600°C, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies and their subsequent oxidation, is central to oxidative PDH, with efforts focusing on improving catalysts to balance activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are critical for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, focusing on optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhances activity and selectivity, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This strategy ensures the catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen, creating Zrcus sites for propane activation, thus improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibit exceptional PDH performance: 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, thanks to the active site isolation strategy. This strategy enhances catalytic performance, making cobalt catalysts promising for long-term PDH utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, due to their activity and regeneration capabilities, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, improving stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative. PDH, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen, faces catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, are developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts, offer a viable alternative. VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrate superior stability and recyclability, with the latter showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts in commercial PDH processes to address catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted in quote [1] and [2]. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation as noted in quote [3], hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying platinum with metals like tin (quote [7]), modifying supports (quote [8]), adjusting catalyst size (quote [9]), and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have surfaced as a direct propane-to-propylene conversion method, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction as an alternative production method. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing PDH efficiency. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites favors high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, making PDH processes more efficient and sustainable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These strategies include developing active sites that increase with smaller particle sizes, understanding the influence of Pt geometric sites on adsorption configurations, and the role of valence states of Pt in reactivity. Challenges include structure-sensitive side reactions leading to undesired products and catalyst deactivation. Solutions involve using single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, which show more facile propylene desorption and higher propylene selectivity. The design of catalytic systems requires the inhibition of deactivation, achieved through modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, adding an appropriate amount of reducible metal oxides such as TiO2 improves stability and C3H6 selectivity. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively affect coke elimination. The confinement situation offered by a support can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exert a spatial constraint on metal clusters, avoiding sintering. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing the shortcomings of conventional methods. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts are effective but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, offers full conversion of paraffins (Quote 5, 6). Solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2, and noble metals like Pt and Au, are explored for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 16). However, these alternatives require frequent catalyst regeneration and some are toxic (Quote 19), necessitating further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent catalyst design advancements, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have significantly improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling deactivation issues through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst is environmentally friendly and outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced by comparative testing.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. These techniques have the potential to lower energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Doped ceria is promising for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially co-generating alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, including decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalysts. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques have evolved. Traditional catalysts using Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time. The direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is also energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, utilizing a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst for direct PDH at lower temperatures. This innovation reduces energy consumption and opens new avenues for utilizing abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to prevent coking, and carbon nitride as support, addresses the need for stable and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, characteristic of oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, refilled by O2 or CO2. To address thermodynamic limitations and improve selectivity, researchers are developing advanced catalysts and computational methods like DFT and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a key process for propene production, offering high selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhances activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is pivotal for creating active sites, significantly improving PDH catalyst performance and addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, is a viable propylene production method. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst exhibits outstanding PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for their high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly by managing surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition and enhance stability, thus improving recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Key challenges, notably catalyst deactivation, are being addressed through innovative design strategies. These include the use of promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides to enhance robustness against coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and employing alloying elements to improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 show promise in tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for PDH, exhibit high activity, stability, and recyclability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining high propene selectivity and minimal propane conversion decline. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted in quote [2]. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation as mentioned in quote [3], remains a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (quote [7]), and exploring single atom catalysts (quote [10]). These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, boosts stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with optimized acidity and textural properties, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity. The ZnO catalysts, being cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, are ideal for industrial propylene production, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and meeting rising industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a key alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their high thermal stability and large surface area, facilitate optimal dispersion of chromium species, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals the positive effect of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though specific strategies are unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to boost selectivity and stability, minimize coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. As demonstrated by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, highlighting the potential of these design strategies to optimize PDH catalysts. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential to combat deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability, as detailed literature remains scarce.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, alternative metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) face deactivation issues due to coke deposition (Quote [3]), necessitating further research (Quote [4]). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote [5]), is explored using O2 and CO2 as oxidants, each with distinct challenges. Solid oxygen carriers (Quote [16]) and noble metals (Quote [19]) present alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. P and Mg modification enhance catalyst stability and performance; P reduces VOx polymerization, while Mg decreases coke deposits. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 affects catalytic performance through the distribution of surface V species. Co-assembly techniques for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, enhance V5+ species interaction with silica, leading to high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit high propene yields due to the production of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods significantly influence the proportion and stability of active V species, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst offers an environmentally friendly solution, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial alternatives. This addresses catalyst deactivation challenges and enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry determine reactor efficiency. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating the critical nature of the VOx phase for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Costly, scarce, and toxic Cr6 and Pt catalysts, prone to coking and cracking, are being replaced. New PDH methods at lower temperatures reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM is developed for the first time, utilizing cobalt as the active site, tin to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as support, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with the catalyst's surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed helps break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, pivotal for propylene production, address industrial demand and traditional method limitations. ZrO2-based catalysts, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, are a promising solution for growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design strategies to address catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, due to their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies aim to control the surface structure of these catalysts under reaction conditions, addressing deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, thus optimizing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites enhance selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides increase robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41 address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, as reported by Sokolov et al., exhibit full recovery after oxidative regeneration, showcasing high stability. Bai et al. found optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain 91% propene selectivity over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, demonstrating remarkable long-term stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH effectively produces propylene at scale, yet faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying platinum with metals, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet growing propylene demand, addressing limitations of traditional methods by directly converting propane. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, improves catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites help disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, with small ZnO clusters connected to the framework as active phases. ZnO catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), is gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, as demonstrated by dealumination and impregnation techniques. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, correlating well with the number of redox Cr sites. Zeolite acidity affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing production challenges. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the impact of particle size on catalytic performance. For instance, smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms to diverse local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. Deactivation often results from side reactions leading to the formation of undesired products and coke, which can be mitigated through the design of specific reaction ensembles and the tuning of support properties. The construction of geometric and electronic structures that govern the adsorption configuration and strength of propylene is essential for inhibiting coke formation. Additionally, modifying supports, metals, and treatments can help inhibit deactivation, with a focus on separating active metal components to improve propylene selectivity and reduce coke formation. Understanding the process of coke deposition is crucial for enhancing catalyst performance and regeneration. Strategies for inhibiting coke include the use of specific promoters, adjusting reaction conditions, and transferring coke precursors from active metals to supports. Moreover, preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles and maintaining the dispersion of active metals are key to catalyst stability. Strong metal-support interactions and confinement effects provided by supports can prevent aggregation and sintering, ensuring the longevity of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling the critical hurdle of catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at boosting stability and recyclability. Despite PDH's promise, specifics on these strategies remain underexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation (Quote 8). CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic (Quote 11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus boosting propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like CADH for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modification for VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to V3+ species production. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts show STYs significantly lower than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and environmental drawbacks. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, as per quote [3], offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, as described in quote [4], shows, as per quote [7], three times higher propene productivity without compromising selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. These methods lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation but face challenges like dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining prominence. Traditional PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, face challenges due to their cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, direct propane dehydrogenation under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies for PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A groundbreaking approach involves a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new avenue for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts being commercial but facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. These advancements focus on improving selectivity and reducing byproducts, addressing the elusive nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for on-purpose propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackle deactivation issues. These catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, surpassing the tetragonal phase, making them cost-efficient and environmentally friendly solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a novel catalyst, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies target the control of surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts minimize coke formation, while additional promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth oxides enhance robustness. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, crucial for withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity in the face of growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous silica solids, like SiO2, show superior stability, addressing deactivation issues. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for PDH, demonstrate long-term stability with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%, suggesting their potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces the challenge of coke formation, which significantly impacts the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative by directly converting propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, cost-effective and non-toxic, enable active ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, improving catalytic activity and stability for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to conventional production methods. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), gains importance due to limitations in traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly affecting propene yield. Dealumination influences catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity and high acidity in AlBeta favoring propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial, as is the role of particle size in increasing the number of active sites and the diversity of exposed atoms, which can lead to catalyst deactivation through side reactions. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable PDH catalysts. As stated in quote [1], the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are not yet fully understood, highlighting the need for further research. Quote [4] emphasizes that side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis result in catalyst deactivation, underlining the importance of design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. It focuses on innovative catalyst design to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with global energy needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional production limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and poor regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but introduces overoxidation risks. CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns, necessitating further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the critical issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ species interaction. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by about 34 times.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based process limitations. Current technologies struggle with toxic or ecologically harmful catalyst regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, prepared through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms, provides an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, formed by defective OH groups, demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, at similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially reduce energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Existing Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, or toxic, with long-term coking issues. Seeking energy-efficient alternatives, researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) addresses deactivation and stability issues, offering a new route for high-value propane utilization at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but suffering from poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Understanding the MVK mechanism, which governs the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, is essential for developing catalysts that balance activity and selectivity while minimizing side reactions. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing industrial demand for propylene and the changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, utilize innovative ZrO2-based catalysts that are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, showing industrial relevance in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size enhances catalyst activity and selectivity, crucial for creating active sites through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior performance for propene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with isolated cobalt oxide sites on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrating exceptional performance: 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per innovative active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key cause of deactivation, thus boosting catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, enhance resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements boost stability and recyclability, critical for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate superior activity and stability, crucial for PDH application. V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 show high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 fully recovering after oxidative regeneration, making V-based catalysts promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative for large-scale production, facing challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably coke formation, which impacts platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies include reductive gas cofeeding to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals like tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size for reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Density functional theory (DFT) simulations provide insights into deactivation and the PDH reaction network, aiding in catalyst design for improved stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements make the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, aligning with industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable solution, complemented by olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP) processes. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues and boosts stability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation on Beta zeolites, known for their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, optimizes catalyst performance. Redox cycles involving Cr sites, like Cr(III)/Cr(II), are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, affecting propene yield. Dealumination impacts catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity and AlBeta's high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted: 'PDH techniques address these challenges by providing an alternative route for propylene production.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, affecting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies, including alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to enhance selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These strategies aim to optimize PDH efficiency and recyclability. Challenges include understanding active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, the impact of particle size on deactivation, and balancing activity with selectivity. Bimetallic compounds and modifications to supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance is crucial, focusing on inhibiting deactivation mechanisms and optimizing reaction conditions to reduce coke formation. Understanding the process of coke deposition and implementing effective strategies to inhibit coke are critical for improving catalyst performance and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for adapting to the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 prevents coke deposition, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks must be managed (Quote 8, 9). CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition (Quote 10, 11, 12). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates (Quote 16, 19). Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial viability (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation issues through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a critical focus, improve selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, aligning with industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermal deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, and Mg modification for anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared by direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, are more active than VOx/Al2O3. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its potential in overcoming deactivation challenges and enhancing stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges like decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalyst performance, and designing efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms is being explored. Acid site titration increases propene selectivity but may reduce propane conversion. Understanding these mechanisms and integrating insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 can lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and prone to deactivation. A novel approach uses CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for direct propane dehydrogenation at low temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies tackle deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH, focusing on the MVK mechanism in oxidative dehydrogenation, which requires temperature control for high selectivity. Advanced catalysts, such as single-atom catalysts and those with controlled oxygen site ratios, are explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity, surpassing traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These optimized catalysts are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, making them industrially relevant for C3 and C4 alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand and production constraints. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates high propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative using supported vanadium oxides as promising catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppress coke deposition, improving catalyst stability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies focus on selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and ensuring robustness against high temperatures and long-term activity. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides boost resistance to coking, while optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape are crucial for stable and recyclable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, particularly through the use of V-based catalysts. VOX-SiO2, VOX/MCM-41, and VOX/Al2O3 catalysts exhibit superior properties, stability, and recyclability. Optimized gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 significantly enhance long-term stability and catalytic activity, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the formation of coke during PDH significantly hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to tackle this issue, such as the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6) and alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7). A systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH is recognized as crucial for improving catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using ZnO catalysts supported by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, address propylene production challenges by enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Small ZnO clusters within the zeolite framework improve performance, making the catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, suitable for industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to conventional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is a critical solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly influence propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites encourages propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for meeting industrial propylene demand, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, crucial for enhancing stability, recyclability, and PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to increase selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance overall efficiency and recyclability. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, impacting deactivation. The design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation is essential for improved performance, and strategies such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments have been shown to be effective. Understanding the process of coke deposition is key to improving catalyst performance and optimizing regeneration. The use of specific promoters and supports, as well as changes in reaction conditions, can positively affect coke elimination and prolong catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. It focuses on innovative catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, though detailed strategies remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the growing industrial demand, particularly in the context of increased shale gas production. Despite advancements with PtSn and CrOx catalysts, challenges persist, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation and irrecoverable activity, as noted in quote [2] and [3]. Oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighted in quote [5] and [6], avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidizing agents. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures but poses overoxidation risks, while CO2 results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. As stated in quote [15], finding a suitable combination of catalyst material and oxidizing agent is pivotal for an effective oxidative dehydrogenation process. Issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity, as mentioned in quote [20], need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the propane-propylene price gap. Thermal deactivation of catalysts, however, remains a critical issue. Recent efforts concentrate on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for Al2O3 synthesis affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance through crystallization temperature, influencing Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalytic performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing active V3+ species. Metal-support interactions and acid sites influence surface VOx species, affecting catalyst design. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, offers environmental compatibility and demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity under industrial conditions, making it a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. However, these techniques face challenges with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity, leading to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. NiOx-based catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, while VOx-based catalysts require careful phase design for high alkene selectivity. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Existing PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, innovative design strategies are being explored for PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A groundbreaking approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures. This development directly tackles the need for a direct propane dehydrogenation method that can minimize energy consumption and overcome catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600 C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, struggle with poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements are crucial for meeting the demands of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, address industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies optimize phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity, crucial for creating active sites and improving PDH processes' environmental friendliness and cost-efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand and production constraints. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized via active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. A synthesized catalyst with isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite exhibits high propane conversion to propene with exceptional selectivity and stability, overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are gaining prominence. Supported vanadium oxides, with high activity and selectivity, are explored as PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, balancing activity and stability for improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and reducing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for commercial PDH. Strategies include optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size for enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids, like VOX-SiO2 and V/γ-Al2O3, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported high activity and stable PDH performance with V-based catalysts, with the latter showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, noting its high stability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrated remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining 91% propene selectivity, making V-based catalysts suitable for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical route for propylene production, addressing growing industrial demand. Pt catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, limits performance. Strategies to enhance stability include hydrogen cofeeding, Pt-Sn alloying, support modification, Pt size adjustment, and single atom catalyst exploration. DFT simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms, aiding in catalyst design for improved PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, exemplified by using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production in the context of increasing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, offers a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective CO2-PDH catalysts, with redox cycles involving Cr sites improving propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking, illustrating the impact of dealumination on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability are pivotal through innovative design strategies in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency of PDH processes. As highlighted by researchers, the coordination structure and electronic states of active sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, while the size of metal particles affects the fraction of active sites and the rate of deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are crucial for the design of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] [42] [43] [44] [45] [46] [47] [48] [49] [50] [51] [52] [53] [54] [55] [56] [57] [58] [59] [60] [61] [62] [63] [64] [65] [66] [67] [68] [69] [70] [71] [72] [73] [74] [75] [76] [77] [78] [79] [80] [81] [82] [83] [84] [85] [86] [87] [88] [89] [90] [91] [92] [93] [94] [95] [96] [97] [98] [99] [100] [101] [102] [103] [104] [105] [106] [107] [108] [109] [110] [111] [112] [113] [114] [115] [116]", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and poor regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations: O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability through active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability and recyclability. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V/SiO2 catalysts enhances V5+ interaction with silica, boosting activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibit higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts have toxicity and ecological drawbacks. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers a solution. Testing reveals this catalyst has three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional alternatives, making it a promising development in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, crucial for efficient catalysts. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are explored for enhanced performance. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are key for efficiency. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors offer potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy from dehydrogenation of alkanes. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Costly and scarce Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking and cracking, are replaced with a novel CoSn/NC catalyst. This non-precious catalyst, operating under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) at lower temperatures, reduces energy consumption and coking deactivation. Cobalt serves as the active site, while tin promotes stability, offering a sustainable solution for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, refilled by O2 or CO2, forming a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, necessitating careful temperature control for high selectivity. Ongoing research focuses on refining catalysts to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for on-purpose propene production, address industrial demand with high selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, combat deactivation issues. Smaller monoclinic crystallites outperform tetragonal ZrO2, enhancing propene activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thereby improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as per Quote [3], enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, as described in Quote [5], exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, due to their activity and selectivity, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 exhibit superior catalytic properties for PDH, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium constraints and minimizing carbon deposition. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts for gelation and calcination temperatures show high activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. reported high performance for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to maintain stable PDH properties and fully recover with oxidative regeneration, highlighting the stability of VOX species. These findings underscore the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism, aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts for PDH processes. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with tailored acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, yielding active ZnO clusters. Supported ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal in enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly influence propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta supports high propene selectivity, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite, unlike over AlBeta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, crucial for sustaining PDH's effectiveness in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that increase the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and the adsorption configurations of propane and propene is essential for improving selectivity and stability. The challenge of deactivation, often due to coke formation, can be mitigated through the design of catalysts with inhibited deactivation, achieved by modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. The size of Pt clusters also plays a significant role in dehydrogenation pathways, and preventing sintering at high PDH reaction temperatures is critical. Strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the confinement effect provided by supports can prevent the aggregation of Pt nanoparticles, maintaining their stability and catalytic performance. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not fully restore catalytic performance over multiple cycles. Innovative approaches to catalyst design, such as the use of single-atom alloys and the modification of support acidity, are being developed to enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing demand for propylene by offering an alternative to traditional methods. Challenges with alternative catalysts, like metal oxides, include rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating ongoing research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but presents issues like overoxidation and endothermic reactions. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion, but require solutions for catalyst regeneration and toxicity to become industrially viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving efficiency and selectivity in response to growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are crucial for improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking capability and improved performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts, containing Cr or Pt, have limitations due to toxicity or regeneration issues. An innovative, environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalyst has been developed, where supported ZnOx species form through a reaction with OH groups above 550C. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. This new catalyst outperforms a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for efficient dehydrogenation. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and stability in the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques are addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking. A new low-temperature PDH process is being developed to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have introduced a novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce coking, opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, meeting the increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but suffering from poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements address the challenges of both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques, utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts, address industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size of ZrO2 creates active sites for propane activation, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, offer a viable propylene production alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as per Quote [3], enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, as per Quote [5], demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides, due to their activity and selectivity, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, a key deactivation issue, improving stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are critical in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Strategies to overcome deactivation include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, which increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further enhance catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, offer a viable alternative. These catalysts, optimized for conditions, exhibit high activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH processes. Notably, VOX/MCM-41 demonstrates stable catalytic properties in PDH without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, highlighting its potential for commercial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge, undermining the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene, as highlighted by the urgent need for effective ways to reduce coke during PDH and the exploration of Pt alloying and support modifications to control coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Dealumination impacts catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity and AlBeta's high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative for enhanced production. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thus enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Challenges remain, such as understanding the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, the impact of particle size on the fraction of active sites, and the role of valence states of Pt in reactivity. Strategies to overcome these include the use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, which show higher propylene selectivity, and the modification of supports and metals to inhibit deactivation. Understanding the process of coke deposition is crucial for improving catalyst performance and optimizing regeneration. The use of H2 and CO2 in cofeeding streams can also positively affect coke elimination. Efforts to inhibit sintering and re-disperse aggregated nanoparticles during dehydrogenation and regeneration processes are ongoing, with strong metal-support interaction and confinement situations offered by supports being key areas of focus.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It addresses catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition (Quote 3), necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5), is a promising alternative, with O2 and CO2 as oxidizing agents. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition (Quote 12). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal, enhancing PDH reaction efficiency and selectivity, addressing stability and recyclability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges in the technique.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    