Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability through strategic design. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3 supports with high surface area, influencing the distribution of surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) results in a high concentration of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving a propene yield of 59.5% and stable selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, with a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit an initial propane conversion and propene selectivity of 18.1% and 91%, respectively, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, displays a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing environmental concerns and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations through innovative catalyst design. Supported oxides (Quote 10) are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors (Quote 13) with high surface area and oxygen flux are crucial. NiOx-based ODH catalysts (Quote 36) offer electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, addressing deactivation challenges. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalyst performance. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge (Quote 22). Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 (Quote 51, 52) may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Innovative CoSn/NC catalysts in microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) offer a new low-temperature PDH process, addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. This development aligns with the need for sustainable and energy-efficient propylene production methods, offering a novel route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements optimize performance, aligning with global propylene demand and evolving energy landscapes. The complex nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways in PDH and ODH systems, including side reactions, underscores the need for continued research in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting escalating propylene demand, offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhance activity and selectivity. Their ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating adaptability in PDH processes to tackle deactivation issues, thereby addressing industrial needs and global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, especially those with isolated active sites, significantly enhance PDH efficiency. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges and boosting stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, critical in PDH, are optimized through innovative design strategies that control surface structure, particularly surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which mitigate coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method amid growing demand, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative strategies. Using late transition metals as promoters and optimizing metal-support interactions enhances stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing V-based catalysts like VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41, address growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations. Studies confirm these catalysts' high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration and optimized VOX-SiO2 maintaining high propene selectivity and propane conversion rates over eight cycles, making them promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH effectively produces propylene, addressing growing needs. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, challenges its efficiency and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms, emphasizing the need for systematic reviews on coke formation and catalyst regeneration. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, enhancing stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production, directly addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing efficiency in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, PDH techniques are pivotal, addressing traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, notably Cr-containing Beta zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion boosts CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. High dispersion of Cr correlates with higher propene production. Low acidity in SiBeta promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta favors propane cracking. Switching PDH modes shows a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with industrial demand and energy trends.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to increase selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. The deactivation of catalysts is primarily due to coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to a rapid decrease in activity on smaller nanoparticles. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments, with a focus on inhibiting structure-sensitive side reactions and improving propylene selectivity. For instance, the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts can elevate the energy barrier for CC bond breaking and facilitate C3H6 desorption. The confinement situation provided by supports can also prevent sintering by offering a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exerting spatial constraints on metal clusters. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not fully restore catalytic performance due to structural transformation and eventual loss of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. Ongoing research refines these strategies, crucial for overcoming limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. PtSn and CrOx catalysts are advanced, but alternative metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) suffer from rapid deactivation and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability. A comprehensive comparison of catalysts is desirable to reveal qualitative differences and guide further research, crucial for developing effective PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combat deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability, and enhancing PDH process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, stands out as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant hurdle. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are being developed to boost stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capability, enhance stability and recyclability. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts shows high activity and stability. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 exhibit improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation, affecting the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts, while less active than Pt catalysts, demonstrate significant advancements in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial oil-based cracking alternative for propylene production, tackling the drawbacks of toxic Cr and chlorine-requiring Pt catalysts. An innovative, environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, showcases three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced in comparative tests against conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations by lowering energy requirements. However, they face challenges with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental and prone to coking and cracking. A focus on low-temperature methods aims to reduce energy consumption. The CoSn/NC catalyst, a novel microwave catalyst under MCRM, offers a new route for utilizing abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation. Innovative strategies, including doping with metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism underscores the need for temperature control to achieve higher selectivity. Computational methods support catalyst screening, advancing PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative design strategies target ZrO2-based catalysts, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size to combat deactivation and enhance stability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for active site creation upon reductive catalyst treatment, making these catalysts industrially relevant for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibit promise with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote 5, highlighting their effectiveness in PDH processes. The active site isolation strategy, as mentioned in Quote 3, enhances catalytic performance, making cobalt catalysts a viable solution to deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging vanadium oxide catalysts for high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the catalyst's surface structure to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, aim to enhance selectivity, minimize coke formation, and improve stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements to boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. VOX-SiO2, a V-based catalyst on mesoporous silica, exhibits enhanced stability and recyclability, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity through optimized conditions. This demonstrates PDH's potential in meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which significantly impacts catalytic performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient and sustainable propylene production methods. A systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts is crucial for understanding reactivity and stability in PDH, highlighting the importance of continued research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a direct propane-to-propylene conversion method, addressing rising propylene demand and production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly in the presence of CO2, emerges as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, where redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. These strategies align with the increasing demand for propylene, offering a viable solution to traditional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design is crucial, tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, optimizing PDH for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These approaches aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, optimizing PDH processes for greater efficiency and sustainability. Understanding the influence of particle size on deactivation and the effectiveness of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Alloying can elevate energy barriers for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption. Single atom catalysts, like Pt/Cu alloys, can break scaling relationships and improve propylene selectivity. Strong metal-support interactions, such as those with CeO2, can trap Pt atoms in an ionic form, enhancing stability even at high temperatures. These advancements are critical for the evolution of PDH processes in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene has spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative to traditional production methods, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. The need for further research on these strategies underscores their importance in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting growing propylene demand, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Catalyst deactivation, often due to coke deposition, hinders activity recovery through regeneration, necessitating innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2 as oxidants, lacks thermodynamic limitations, with O2 preventing coke formation and lowering reaction temperatures, albeit with the risk of overoxidation. CO2, while milder, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the process endothermic. Selecting a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues of catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, like supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle, but recent design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are advancing stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing catalyst design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability, enhancing catalytic performance. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, increasing Lewis acid sites for better catalytic activity. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, strengthens V5+ species interaction with silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand while mitigating the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts offer an environmentally friendly solution, overcoming the toxicity and ecological issues of Cr or Pt-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through OH group reactions, demonstrate superior performance, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and the design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is being investigated. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues. Seeking energy efficiency, researchers aim for low-temperature PDH methods. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high activity but challenged by poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with the catalyst's surface oxygen, leading to oxygen vacancies and a catalytic cycle. However, the reaction products are prone to over-oxidation, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Understanding and controlling the reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts, including side reactions, is essential for improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing activity and selectivity. Monoclinic ZrO2 with smaller crystallite sizes outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand, crucial for diverse products. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH performance: achieving 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design strategies to overcome deactivation and enhance stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH using supported vanadium oxides emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, like surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring robust catalysts and additional promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements are pivotal for commercial PDH technologies, ensuring high-temperature resilience, activity maintenance, and minimized coke formation for selective dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH techniques, notably using VOX-SiO2 catalysts, offer a viable solution. These optimized catalysts demonstrate superior stability and recyclability, with propane conversion rates declining from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while maintaining 91% propene selectivity, effectively addressing deactivation challenges and making PDH processes commercially promising.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical production method, offering an alternative to conventional routes. PDH is lauded for its ability to produce propylene on a large scale, but catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge, affecting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate these issues, including the introduction of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke formation, alloying platinum with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, and adjusting catalyst size to influence reactivity. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations, as highlighted in recent literature reviews.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts enhance stability and recyclability, offering improved activity and reduced side reactions. These low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable catalysts are ideal for industrial propylene production amidst growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially CO2-assisted PDH, as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, as demonstrated by improved catalytic performance up to 2wt % of Cr. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, crucial for industrial adaptation and energy landscape evolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, and the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2, which can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively impact coke elimination, as increasing hydrogen pressure leads to lower coverage of deeply dehydrogenated coke precursors on the surface. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. Strategies like these are crucial for the continuous improvement of PDH catalysts and processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. It addresses catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability, in line with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and method constraints. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts have been pivotal, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating ongoing research (Quote 4). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, employs O2 and CO2 as oxidants; O2 eradicates coke and reduces reaction temperatures but poses overoxidation risks (Quote 5-9), while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but produces less heat (Quote 10-11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity must be resolved for industrial application (Quote 16-20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability, enhancing PDH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermal deactivation remains a significant challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, offering alternatives to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance through the CADH approach, increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based cracking limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed for environmental compatibility, with ZnOx species forming through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups are crucial for this process. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the new ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and improving efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to deactivation by coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for low-temperature PDH addresses these challenges. This catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, supported by carbon nitride phase, enhances stability and recyclability, offering a promising alternative for propylene production with reduced energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C, faces challenges like unsatisfactory selectivity and deactivation due to coke formation. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, necessitates lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Advanced catalysts, like single-atom catalysts and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, addressing the thermodynamic limitations of PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing ZrO2-based catalysts, meet industrial propylene demand with high propene selectivity. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, favoring the monoclinic phase and smaller sizes, boosts activity and selectivity. ZrO2's lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a vital propene production method. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation significantly boosting catalytic performance. As demonstrated, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibit superior PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after extended reaction time at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, emerge as a viable alternative. These catalysts, known for high activity, selectivity, and regeneration, effectively address deactivation issues through innovative design strategies. Controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence suppresses coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Strategies involve using promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to enhance resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements are crucial for stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, notably V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, offer enhanced catalytic properties and stability. Optimizing gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 boosts activity and stability, crucial for PDH. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit full recovery post-oxidative regeneration, highlighting their stability and recyclability, making V-based catalysts a viable solution for commercial PDH processes, tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a leading alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces a significant challenge in catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting platinum size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism, providing insights into the nature of coke and its impact on reactivity and stability in PDH processes. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods. As one of the most important building blocks for the chemical industry, the demands of propene have dramatically increased, making the on-purpose catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane one of the most promising routes to produce propylene. However, coke formation during the reaction severely undermines the catalytic performance and stability, necessitating effective ways to reduce coke during PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite-supported ZnO catalysts, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, enhance stability and recyclability by improving activity and reducing side reactions, making them cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial use, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected annual demand of 130 million tonnes for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative chromium-containing Beta zeolites serve as superior catalysts in PDH processes, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites, followed by chromium dispersion, yields catalysts with high selectivity to propene over SiBeta zeolites, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. These advancements in catalyst design are pivotal in meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a major PDH challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies. Bimetallic compounds show a linear relationship between activity and selectivity, indicating that selectivity decreases as activity increases. Support modifications, such as the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2, improve stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Alumina, a conventional support, can be modified with alkaline promoters to decrease acidity. Changes in reaction conditions, like cofeeding H2 and CO2, positively impact coke elimination. H2 reduces the coverage of deeply dehydrogenated coke precursors, while CO2 acts as a soft oxidant to reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) prevents sintering of metal particles, and confinement situations provided by supports prevent agglomeration of Pt nanoparticles. These strategies are essential for improving PDH efficiency and sustainability in changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability, highlighting the need for more detailed strategies in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation and coke deposition issues, lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation (Quote 8), while CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition (Quote 12). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability (Quote 16, Quote 19, Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and production limitations, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal, enhancing PDH reaction selectivity and efficiency, and improving stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a cost-effective solution, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial viability, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Recent innovations in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, directly tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production address catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. P modification on VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg addition boosts anti-coking properties, improving catalytic performance. CADH synthesizes high-surface-area Al2O3, affecting catalytic activity. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs strengthens V5+ interaction with silica, boosting activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance, while Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst performance varies, with the most active exhibiting STYs less than those of Pt catalysts. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation, affecting surface VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand amidst oil-based cracking limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face challenges like Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An eco-friendly solution uses commercial ZnO to create supported catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reactions with OH groups at high temperatures. This ZnO-based catalyst outperforms conventional KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced by testing over 400 hours, making it a promising innovation in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry, with high oxygen flux and surface area being critical. The nature of the VOx phase is crucial for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. These strategies enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, PDH techniques are evolving to address the limitations of traditional production methods. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, leading to high energy consumption. To tackle these challenges, a novel approach under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is being developed. This method utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, aiming to reduce energy consumption and open a new route for efficient propane utilization, thereby enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints in traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, operates at 600°C using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges with selectivity, deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is pivotal in oxidative PDH. Incorporating an oxidant breaks thermodynamic limitations but necessitates precise temperature control to prevent over-oxidation. These advancements optimize PDH efficiency, meeting global energy demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address the growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues in PDH processes by creating active Zrcus sites crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH using abundant propane is a viable alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, effective and abundant, are key in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A novel CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized in two steps, exhibits superior PDH performance and stability, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Vanadium oxides, with their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, optimize active sites for selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH, enhanced by promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides, which improve coking resistance. Optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size further boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through innovative V-based catalyst design. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for stability, exhibit superior activity in PDH, as evidenced by Bai's work on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and Sokolov's findings on VOX/MCM-41's stability without O2, with oxidative regeneration enabling full recovery. Rodemerck's research underscores V-based catalysts' commercial potential. Optimized VOX-SiO2 demonstrates long-term stability, with propane conversion from 55% to 45% over 4h and 91% propene selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. However, PDH faces challenges, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to tackle these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for increased propylene production and overcoming the limitations of traditional methods. As one of the most important building blocks for the chemical industry, the demands of propene have dramatically increased in recent years, making the on-purpose catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) a promising and effective route to produce propylene. However, the coke formation during the reaction severely undermines the catalytic performance and stability, necessitating effective ways to reduce coke during PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Utilizing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, enable the production of active ZnO clusters, improving performance. They are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production amidst growing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are emerging as selective methods for propylene synthesis. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues and boosts stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for high chromium dispersion, essential for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields effective catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites influencing propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite matrix, such as SiBeta for high selectivity and AlBeta for propane cracking, significantly affects catalytic properties, impacting propene formation rates in switch operation modes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable solution, innovating catalyst design to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). By improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, these approaches significantly boost the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, Gong and coworkers demonstrated improved propylene selectivity and stability through the use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, showing that every Pt surface atom is active for propane dehydrogenation, but the geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states can significantly influence the propylene adsorption and potential side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and traditional method limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting growing propylene demand, with oxidative dehydrogenation offering thermodynamic advantages over nonoxidative methods. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts, though effective, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Innovative catalyst design is imperative for enhanced stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, utilizing O2 or CO2, shows promise; O2 prevents coke formation and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but produces less heat and may increase coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, issues needing resolution for industrial viability. Finding the optimal catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques, utilizing supported vanadium oxides, effectively address propylene demand by tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by focusing on innovative catalyst design to overcome deactivation. Crystallization temperature influences catalytic performance by altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg improves anti-coking capability. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs, boosts activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with V3+ species contributing to enhanced performance. Catalyst design must consider support nature for optimal metal-support interactions. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than the best Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional PDH, using Cr or Pt catalysts, faces toxicity and ecological issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through high-temperature reactions, offer enhanced propene productivity and selectivity, addressing deactivation challenges and improving stability and recyclability. These catalysts demonstrate about three times higher propene productivity compared to conventional ones, making them a promising solution in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes are also under investigation, with potential for cogeneration. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being designed, considering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts, which are costly, scarce, or prone to deactivation, innovative CoSn/NC catalysts have been developed for microwave-assisted PDH. This novel approach under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) addresses the need for low-temperature methods to reduce energy consumption, offering a sustainable route for propylene production from abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, encounters challenges such as poor selectivity and deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Pt-based catalysts, while active, necessitate innovation for enhanced stability and recyclability. Strategies include doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies, is pivotal for oxidative PDH, guiding the development of more efficient catalysts through computational methods. These advancements aim to address the thermodynamic limitations and side reactions in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a high-selectivity alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably ZrO2-based catalysts optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, address deactivation challenges. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, providing a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, noted for their abundance and efficacy, are essential for PDH, as per quote [2]. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as in quote [3], enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized via a two-step process, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as evidenced in quote [5]. This exemplifies how PDH addresses catalyst deactivation challenges through design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH with vanadium oxide catalysts emerges as a promising alternative. Innovative design strategies, focusing on surface structure control, notably the role of hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts with high-temperature stability and long-term activity are crucial for commercial PDH, enhancing stability and recyclability in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, which show superior properties. Mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts achieve high activity and stability, while VOX/MCM-41 catalysts maintain stability without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion and propene selectivity remaining high over multiple cycles, making V-based catalysts a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges through enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production. However, coke formation significantly hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn), modifying supports, adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex reaction network of PDH. Despite progress, a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts is still lacking, highlighting the need for further research. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to the adoption of PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts minimize side reactions, making them ideal for propylene production in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, prompting the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite substrate plays a critical role, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the challenges of increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies involve understanding the role of active sites and deactivation mechanisms, optimizing particle size to balance active site availability and deactivation risk, and employing supports and promoters to inhibit coke formation and sintering. For instance, alloying with promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption, while the addition of reducible oxides like TiO2 can improve stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying supports with alkaline promoters and introducing metal oxides can decrease acidity and modulate the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, enhancing anti-coking capability. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as co-feeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation and maintain catalyst stability. These design strategies aim to prolong catalyst life and enhance the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies aim to boost stability and recyclability, underscoring the need for further exploration to maximize PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, unlike stable PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic constraints but introduces overoxidation and heat management challenges. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and must address toxicity for industrial use. Further research is needed to optimize catalysts and reaction systems for viable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, effectively tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving PDH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative due to the favorable propane-to-propylene price differential. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification aids in anti-coking and boosts catalytic activity. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling the constraints of conventional methods. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues like toxicity and ecological damage. An innovative approach now yields environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species are formed through a reaction with support OH groups. The pivotal role of defective OH groups in this process is identified. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 equivalent, the novel ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar propene selectivity, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency. Challenges include decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are being developed. Existing PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. A novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, effectively addressing energy consumption and offering a sustainable solution for abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges of unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Efforts are ongoing to improve selectivity and activity, addressing catalyst deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, overcome deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity, crucial for propane activation. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, demonstrating its effectiveness in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, are critical for fulfilling growing propylene demand. Earth-abundant cobalt-based catalysts, optimized by active site isolation, significantly enhance PDH efficiency. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves high propane conversion to propene without deactivation, effectively overcoming catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts for high activity and selectivity, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, focusing on surface structure control and minimizing coke deposition, enhance stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhances selectivity and minimizes coke formation, tackling deactivation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial, with strategies involving promoters and optimized metal-support interactions for improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts, such as VOX-SiO2, VOX/MCM-41, and those on γ-Al2O3, are pivotal in enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 exhibited high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts were stable in non-oxidative PDH and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrated long-term stability, with propane conversion and propene selectivity remaining high over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly coke formation, hampers Pt catalyst performance in PDH. Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for increased propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, boost catalytic activity, minimize side reactions, and are cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a vital alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion significantly boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, as evidenced by the correlation between redox Cr sites and propene yield. Zeolite acidity, particularly in SiBeta and AlBeta, influences propene selectivity, with SiBeta favoring high selectivity and AlBeta promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have led to the emergence of PDH as a viable alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include optimizing active sites, controlling particle size to increase the number of active sites while managing the diversity of exposed atoms, and manipulating electronic states to influence selectivity and prevent side reactions. Understanding the role of valence states of Pt (Pt0 or Ptx+) and the impact of geometric models on the fraction of under-coordinated atoms is crucial. The design of catalytic systems with promoted performance involves the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. Strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, the application of a descriptor to represent selectivity, and the linear relationship between selectivity and activity. Deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, can be mitigated through the use of specific reaction ensembles, tuning support acidity, and optimizing reaction conditions. The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the confinement effect offered by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous generation may not fully restore catalytic performance. Further research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and develop effective strategies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing growing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH, but alternative metal oxides deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition. Innovative strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is explored to avoid thermodynamic limitations; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is essential for effective oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints highlight PDH techniques as a viable solution. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, effectively address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a viable alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, boosting VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues like Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, addresses these challenges. It shows three times higher propene productivity than a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar propene selectivity, making it a promising solution for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, increasing temperature boosts alkane conversion but reduces alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored, including proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face challenges with decreased propene selectivity at higher alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques are gaining prominence. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, and prone to deactivation by coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. This innovative catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as a support, offers a sustainable route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts being commercial but facing challenges like low propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, observed in oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating oxygen vacancies and a catalytic cycle. These advancements aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting rising propylene demand, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies, like ZrO2-based catalysts, combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These eco-friendly and cost-effective catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, create active sites for propane activation, with the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 showing superior activity and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, is a viable propylene production method, overcoming traditional limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, demonstrates outstanding PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, utilizing supported vanadium oxides as promising catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group presence on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts is critical for overcoming deactivation issues and improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth oxides enhance coking resistance. Controlled particle size and optimal metal-support interactions improve stability and recyclability, ensuring catalyst robustness at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirm the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, particularly VOX/MCM-41, in PDH reactions. These catalysts demonstrate full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making them a promising choice for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit significant long-term stability in non-oxidative PDH, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. However, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring their competitiveness in the evolving global energy landscape. Understanding the nature and origin of coke on Pt catalysts is critical for improving PDH efficiency, as it significantly impacts reactivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species, minimizing side reactions, and making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a forecasted 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are stretched, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and its oxidative forms as pivotal alternatives. Innovative catalysts, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are critical for tackling deactivation issues and boosting stability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields potent CO2-PDH catalysts, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly influencing propene yield. The presence of CO2 positively impacts propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, demonstrating the catalyst's adaptability and efficiency in meeting escalating industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to increase the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, minimize coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby boosting the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. The ambiguity in understanding the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH highlights the need for further research. Inhibiting deactivation through support modification and alloying is crucial. Separating active metal components and using single-atom alloys can improve propylene selectivity and inhibit deep dehydrogenation, as demonstrated in studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, directly addressing key PDH process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and rising industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, with limited regeneration effectiveness. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, lacks thermodynamic limitations, offering full paraffin conversion. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though milder, results in less heat formation and may increase coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, efficiently addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, prompting innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing critical issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing catalyst design strategies. CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis boosts VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts. This addresses deactivation challenges by utilizing defective OH groups for the formation of active ZnOx species, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. However, they face challenges with temperature and selectivity, particularly with decreased propene selectivity over VOx catalysts. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high surface area and oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. The critical role of the VOx phase in determining selectivity is highlighted, and insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Seeking to address these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalysts for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A groundbreaking approach utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation targets deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including metal doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies address the MVK mechanism, where reactants interact with oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, aiming to control the ratio of oxygen sites for balanced activity and selectivity. The use of single-atom catalysts, modification of acid-base properties, and tuning of oxygen activity are explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, addressing the complex nature of PDH and ODH systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet industrial propylene demand. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhance stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene. ZrO2's capability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is essential for creating active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and efficient, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, offer a viable alternative for propylene production. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing growing demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring novel promoters and optimized metal-support interactions, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial PDH technologies in evolving industrial and global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, in particular, exhibit superior catalytic activity, maintaining high propene selectivity and propane conversion over multiple cycles, addressing thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition, making PDH a promising method for propylene production in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of traditional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production [2]. However, PDH faces significant challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which severely undermines the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts [3]. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the use of reductive gases like hydrogen to significantly reduce coke formation [6], alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, effectively addressing industrial demand and the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, converting propane directly to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with structured acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, making the catalysts cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-PDH, emerges as a key alternative. Chromium-containing Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are crucial catalysts. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts, as the number of redox Cr sites correlates with propene yield. Zeolite acidity, such as in SiBeta or AlBeta, significantly influences catalytic properties; low acidity promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), aiming to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Particle size and electronic states significantly influence the fraction of active sites and potential for side reactions, affecting catalyst deactivation. To design more stable PDH catalysts, efforts are being made to modify supports, metals, and treatments, as indicated by [1], [2], and [3].", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing limitations and rising demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx face deactivation issues, necessitating innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, is promising. O2, as an oxidant, eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperature, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a solution to rising propylene demand and production limitations, with innovative catalyst design, like supported vanadium oxide, tackling deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving reaction efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent innovations focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, minimizing coke deposits. Supports like Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, and Si-beta, optimized through CADH and co-assembly, improve activity and stability. V-DMSNs exhibit high catalytic activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction. Catalyst design considers support nature for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts in PDH face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative method now prepares eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups playing a crucial role. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. Innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional PDH techniques, innovative catalyst design is pivotal. Existing Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are expensive, scarce, and toxic, with high energy consumption and susceptibility to coking and cracking. Researchers are now exploring low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A groundbreaking CoSn/NC catalyst, operating under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), is introduced, offering an efficient propane dehydrogenation solution at lower temperatures. This novel catalyst addresses the challenges of deactivation and energy consumption, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to create and refill vacancies, governs oxidative dehydrogenation, forming a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, added oxidants react with hydrogen, releasing heat, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Research focuses on catalyst design to address deactivation and improve stability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a high-selectivity alternative. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, outperform tetragonal ZrO2 by enhancing activity and selectivity. This design enables lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment, crucial for propane activation and PDH performance, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH processes. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation over 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal in PDH, are optimized through innovative design strategies that control surface structure, leveraging surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, a major deactivation cause. This enhancement boosts stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH, effectively addressing catalyst challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design, featuring late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, optimizes metal-support interactions, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements address deactivation issues, ensuring robust performance and prolonged activity, crucial for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are gaining prominence. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit superior activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Notably, V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports show high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 fully recoverable after oxidative regeneration, underscoring their potential for commercial PDH processes in overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, and modifying supports to control coke. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, with small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework acting as active phases. Supported ZnO catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalysts, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. These catalyst design strategies effectively meet the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, directly tackling industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, necessitating innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Active site optimization and deactivation mechanisms are critical, with particle size affecting the number of active sites and managing diverse local environments. Strategies include manipulating geometric and electronic states to influence propylene adsorption and side reactions, using supports and promoters to modulate acidity and electron transfer, and adjusting reaction conditions to reduce coke formation. These approaches aim to improve catalyst performance by inhibiting deactivation, promoting selectivity, and enhancing stability through controlled geometric and electronic effects, as evidenced by the role of supports like alumina and the addition of promoters like Cu and Sn to improve catalytic stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It addresses catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for improved processes in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke deposition, poses a significant challenge. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is more promising than nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but introduces overoxidation risks. CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternative solutions but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for addressing the increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and traditional method constraints. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, stands as a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements concentrate on enhancing stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis boosts VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to direct co-assembly. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 properties. Si-beta zeolites serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher V3+ species, are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Catalyst design considers support nature and metal-support interactions. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital propylene production method, tackling industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts are limited by toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offers an eco-friendly solution. This catalyst boasts three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced under industrial conditions, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored for efficient dehydrogenation. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are investigated for NiOx-based ODH catalysts. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Potassium minimizes the undesired influence on alkene selectivity in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques are evolving to address the limitations of traditional methods. Existing PDH catalysts, often based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, a novel PDH method at lower temperatures is being developed to reduce energy use. This innovative approach utilizes non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts in microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride as the support, addresses the need for stable and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes, directly responding to the challenges of catalyst deactivation and energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing challenges like poor selectivity and stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for improved catalyst design in the context of increasing demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial propylene demand with high selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation through optimized design. ZrO2-based catalysts, crucial for cost-effective C3 and C4 alkane dehydrogenation, enhance performance with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase. Tuning phase composition boosts activity and selectivity, while lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment creates active sites, vital for propane activation, demonstrating innovative strategies to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging shale-gas-derived propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH using VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a viable alternative for propylene production, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, strategies include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, with promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides to resist coking. Optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size enhance stability and recyclability, ensuring commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, including oxidative and non-oxidative processes, are gaining prominence. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O2, notably VOX-SiO2, VOX/MCM-41, and those on γ-Al2O3, effectively tackle deactivation, offering enhanced stability and recyclability. These catalysts, as reported by Bai et al., Sokolov et al., and Rodemerck et al., demonstrate superior catalytic properties and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, making them a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Innovative strategies, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene. Understanding the nature and origin of coke, as well as the kinetic aspects of its formation, is essential for catalyst design and improvement.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial propylene demand by directly converting propane, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity, dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions, leading to low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable ZnO catalysts for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and meeting industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies. These strategies enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, crucial for meeting rising industrial demand. Innovative catalyst designs are pivotal, aligning with the shifting global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. For instance, the use of Pt-based catalysts with specific geometric and electronic structures can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, while the addition of promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for unwanted reactions and facilitate propylene desorption. Moreover, modifying supports with metal oxides or using nanocarbons can decrease acidity, modulate dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, and provide spatial constraints to avoid sintering. These approaches collectively enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, catering to escalating industrial demand and overcoming conventional production constraints.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation and coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising but introduces overoxidation with O2 and less heat with CO2. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution. Innovative design strategies are essential for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional method limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving PDH process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly boost stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by employing VOx/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized via CADH, which enhances performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, including V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows enhanced performance from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, as demonstrated by the improved performance of VOx/ZrO2 and VOx/Si-beta zeolites, which are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. A novel ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers a threefold increase in propene productivity under industrial conditions, presenting an environmentally compatible solution to catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. Challenges remain, such as decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation offer cogeneration potential. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, with insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 aiding in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption. To address these challenges, researchers have developed a novel low-temperature PDH method using microwave catalytic reaction mode with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This innovative design, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, effectively addresses deactivation issues and improves recyclability, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants interact with surface oxygen, creating vacancies that can be refilled by O2 or CO2, forming a catalytic cycle. Adding an oxidant addresses thermodynamic limitations but requires temperature control for selectivity. Complex reaction mechanisms and side reactions are considerations in PDH systems, necessitating further research and development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable process for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, optimizes phase composition and crystallite size to combat deactivation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites for propane activation, crucial for stability and recyclability enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal. Active site isolation enhances PDH performance, as per Quote [3]. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation, as in Quote [5], demonstrating superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH using vanadium oxide catalysts emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the catalyst's surface structure, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a solution to meet rising propylene demand, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Enhanced metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements ensure robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, maintain activity, and improve recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably using V-based catalysts, are emerging as a solution. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for PDH, exhibit superior activity and stability. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 show high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 fully recovering after oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for commercial PDH processes and maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are advancing to meet growing industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative. Oxidative dehydrogenation, notably CO2-PDH, gains prominence. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is essential for stability and recyclability enhancement. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate optimal chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly influence propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite matrix, whether SiBeta or AlBeta, greatly affects catalytic properties and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized active sites and dehydrogenation pathways. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. Deactivation often results from side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, leading to the formation of undesired products. Innovative design strategies focus on modifying the geometric and electronic properties of catalysts to inhibit deactivation, such as by controlling the coordination structure and electronic states of Pt atoms. The use of bimetallic compounds and supports like CeO2 and TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by inhibiting coke formation and sintering. Additionally, adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst performance. These strategies are crucial for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability are crucial through innovative design strategies in PDH processes, highlighting advancements in catalyst technology to meet industrial needs and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation avoids thermodynamic limitations: O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation; CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combats deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    