I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


IN
CATALYTIC CRACKING, both fixed-bed and fluid, It has been found that there i s an intrinsic uniformity in the way the carbon deposlt on the catalyst increases with the time elapsed since the oatalyst was last regenerated.
For all the data examined, the amount of carbon deposited on the catalyst at given conditions is, within limits, inde- pendent of the hydrocarbon feed rate. From this study,correlations are derived that define mathematically the interdependence between feed stock conversion, feed rate,and length of period between catalyst regenerations.
A
speculative hypothesls is advanced as a possible sxplana- tion of the mechanism of carbon formation.
CA
I
TALY
c
ALEXIS VOORHIES, JR.
ESSO LABORAIORIES
BATON ROUGE. LA.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF
NEW JERSEY (LOUISIANA
DIVISION)
HEN petroleum hydrocarbons undergo deep-seated reac- tions in the presence o f solid catalysts, carbonaceous de- posits usually accumulate on the catalyst and decrease its
W
activity, so that periodic regeneration is necessary. A conspicuous exception is the case of high-pressure catalytic hydrogenation where the catalyst retains its activity for pe- riods up to a year and longer without any regeneration (2). Ex- amples of regenerative processes are (a) catalytic cracking of gas oils and (b) catalytic reforming of naphthas. This paper presents a discussion o f certain aspects of the formation of carbonaceous deposits in catalytic cracking.
The carbonaceous deposit that is an inevitable by-product o f
catalytic cracking is called coke, and is generally determined as the weight per cent of carbon on feed or on catalyst. Some of the factors influencing carbon formation in catalytic cracking have been discussed (1,3 ) .
This catalytic coke is apparently a hydrocarbon of relatively lonr hydrogen content, which may vary in accordance with feed stock or operating conditions. A formula of (C8HI) has been reported (4).
The carbonaceous deposit also contains sulfur derived from the feed stock. However, the pres- ent discussion is concerned not with the hydrogen or sulfur con- tent of catalytic coke but solely with the measured amount of car- bon in the deposit.
Although the extent of carbon formation in catalytic cracking depends on the type o f catalyst, the feed stock, and the operating conditions, it has been found that there is an intrinsic uniformity in the way the carbon deposit on the catalyst increases with time.
Certain generalized correlations of striking simplicity and con- siderable utility have resulted from a study of such data. AS this paper will show, the usefulness o f the relations developed ex- tends beyond the field of carbon yields to include an equation de- fining the interdependence among feed stock conversion, feed rate, and length of period between catalyst regenerations. The generalizations and derived relations apply equally to fluid and fixed-bed cracking. The results reported here were obtained in equipment ranging from laboratory size to semiplant scale. The correlations derived have been applied to the commercial-scale units.
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS
The ordinary feed stock in catalytic cracking is a petroleum gas oil, the mwt volatile fractions of which have a higher boiling point than the back end of the gasoline produced. Thus, for avi- stion gasoline production, the initial boiling point of the feed stock will generally be above 300 F.; for motor gasoline, above 318 400 F. Although commercial catalytic cracking unit,s today are employed for aviation rather t,han motor gasoline production,it is still convenient to refer to the feed stock conversion on the bssis of production of motor gasoline. For simplicity, the prod- ucts of catalytic cracking are often designated as follows: Feed Stook Per Cent of Feed by: Gas (CS and lighter) Weight Total C4 Volume Aviation gasoline Volume Heavy naphtha Volume Cycle gas oil 400 F. initial b.p.) Volume Carbon (or coke) Weight In this system the feed stock conversion is arbitrarily taken as 100 minus volume % cycle gas oil (400 F. i.b.p.). It is realized that this expression is not an exact measure of feed stock destruc- tion. However, it furnishes a convenient means for correlat- ing the yields of the various products. This definition of feed stock conversion is employed in this paper.
In catalytic cracking, either fluid or fixed-bed, the extent of con- version is determined by such factors as catalyst, feed stock, tem- perature, pressure, feed rate, and length of time between catalyst regenerations (here called catalyst residence time)
In fixed- bed cracking the conversion measured is the summation of the instantaneous conversions throughout the process period, the in- stantaneous conyereions decreasing with time on stream as the catalyst becomes fouled with coke. Fluid catalytic cracking dif- fers from fixed-bed as follows:
1. Catalyst is currently regenerated in a separate vessel, so
that feed stock and freshly regenerated catalyst are continuously brought together in the reactor.
2. As a result o
f the above, a uniform conversion is main- tained, rather than a continuously decreasing conversion as in the process cycle of fixed-bed cracking.
3. The catalyst residence time in fluid cracking is generally
much shorter than the length of time between regenerations in fixed-bed work.
In either fluid or fixed-bed cracking, conversion increases with increasing temperature, decreasing feed rate, and decreasing cata- lyst residence time. The effect of increasing pressure, at least up to about 50 pounds per square inch gage, is to increase conver- sion, However, pressure w a s
not a variable in the data presented here because substantially atmospheric pressure was employed.
In fluid cracking the feed rate is generally expressed as weight of feed per hour per weight of catalyst held in the reactor or w/hr./w.
Another term employed in fluid cracking i s the cata- April, 1945
I N D U S T R I A L  A N D
E N G I N E E R I N G  C H E M I S T R Y
319 lyst-to-oil ratio, which is the ratio of the weight rates of flow of catalyst and oil. The catalyst residence time in the reactor is related to the w/hr./w and catalyst/oil ratio as follows:1 (w/hr./w) (catalyst residence time, min.) - - - 60 catalyst/oil ratio or W = 60/Zd In fixed-bed cracking the feed rate is usually defined as volumes of feed per volume of catalyst per hour, or v/v/hr.
The re- lation between w/hr./w and v/v/hr. is:( density of feed wv/hr*/w = (v/v/hr.) density of catalyst or
W = U*D,/D,
At a given temperature the depth of catalytic cracking, as measured by conversion, determines the quality and yields of the various products. Thus the yields of gm and carbon invari- ably increase with increasing conversion. At a given conversion level, the quality and yields of the various products depend on the temperature, but are virtually independent of relative feed rate and catalyst residence time. Thus whether a given con- version is obtained by a high feed rate and a short residence time or vice versa, the yields of carbon and other products are sub- stantially unaffected. The relation between carbon on feed and conversion is especially important. This carbon yield refers to catalytic carbon produced in the reaction and does not in- clude the so-called strippable carbon, which represents adsorbed and interspersed hydrocarbon gas and liquid remaining with the spent catalyst after the cracking has been accomplished.
It is common practice to purge off most of the strippable carbon Catalytic Regenerator at the Top of One o f the Fluid Catalytic Cracking Units a t  the Baton Rouge Refinery before the catalyst is regenerated. For the cracking operations reported here, this increment of carbon yield was negligible com- pared to catalytic carbon.
Although, as mentioned above, the yield of carbon on feed stock at a given temperature is a function of conversion, there is also a well-defined relation between the weight per cent o f carbon on catalyst and the catalyst residence time. Important deduc- tions are derivable from the following relations: Wt. % carbon based on feed = function of feed conversion Wt. % carbon on catalyst = function of catalyst residence time Data in fixed-bed and in fluid catalytic cracking are treated sep- arately.
CARBON FORMATION I N  FIXED-BED CRACKING
A considerable amount of data shows that the weight per cent carbon formed on the catalyst is approximately a logarithmic function of the length of time elasped since the catalyst was freshly regenerated. For a given catalyst, feed stock, and tem- perature, the equation takes the form:
C, = A$"
Two examples of this relationship are discussed.
Example 1 is shown graphically in Figure 1,which depicts the relation between carbon on catalyst and residence time of cata- lyst for a West Texas gas oil and anatural (activated clay) crack- ing catalyst at 850' F. The experiments were conducted in a small fixed-bed unit. Each point on the plot represents a run,either on a fresh batch of catalyst or on one that had very few regenerations. In other words, the level of initial catalyst ac- tivity represented by the data was substantially constant.After the process period had lasted for the time indicated in Figure 1, the catalyst was purged to remove strippable carbon.Then the catalyst was discharged from the unit, and the carbon on it was determined by combustion of a representative sample.The cracking period lengths included much shorter residence times than are normally employed in fixed-bed cracking, because the experiments were designed to furnish fundamental informa- tion. The correlating line on the graph is represented by the equation :
C, = 0.86 80."
(1 1 A second example, also portrayed in Figure 1 ,shows the rela- tion between carbon on catalyst and residence time for an East Texas gas oil and R synthetic (silica-alumina) catalyst at 850" F.
The results were obtained in small fixed-bed units, on which a study was being made of the effect of feed rate (v/v/hr.) and length of process period (8). The synthetic catalyst was of such . inherent stability that its activity was completely restored after each successive regeneration. Hence the entire study was made on one batch of catalyst. After each process period the catalyst was purged and then regenerated in situ by air oxidation. The carbon formation was determined by measuring and analyzing the regeneration gases. Although the accuracy of these de- terminations was not of a particularly high order, a fairly good correlation was obtained between carbon on catalyst and residence time, represented by the following equation:c, = 0.65 w r
(2) In the example just discussed for East Texas gas oil and syn- thetic catalyst, the implicit assumption is made that, within lim- its, the feed rate has no effect on the extent of carbon formation on catalyst for a given residence time. Although this may appear strange at first, there is a large amount of supporting evidence,some of which follows.
A rather extensive series of runs was made on a small-scale fixed-bed unit on an East Texas gas oil, both with natural and with synthetic catalyst, to determine the effect of feed rate on carbon formation at cracking temperatures from 800' to 950" F.
The feed rate wm varied from 0.6 to 1 . 2
v/v/hr., but the length 320 I N D U S T R I A L  A N D  E N G I N E E R I N G  CHEMISTRY Vol. 37, No. 4
WEST TEXAS GAS OIL -NATURAL CATALYST
1 . 2
V/V/HR. 0
E A S T  TEXAS GAS 0
1
L -SYNTHETIC CATALYST 0.3 VIV/HR. 6
0.6VlVlHR. [3
1 0 . 0
I
- 8 . 0
5 6 . 0
$4.0 9 3 . 0
6 2 . 0
2 0 . 8
3 ru m t
' 9 0 3 0  y o  0 0 0 0 0 v)o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o o o o . 3 m b  d.,j9 d(u m l t  a m 0  - 0 o z
1.5
0 m 1.0
U0.6
0 . 4
k . +
" N  rn
CRACKING TIME,MINUTES
Figure 1. Carbon Formation V
I
.
Cracking Time in Fixed- Bed Catalytic Cracking of cracking period waa uniformly maintained at 2 hours. After each run the catalyst was discharged from the unit and analyzed for carbon by combustion; and 8 fresh batch of catalyst was in- stalled for the next run. The data are presented in Table I.
It will be noted that, as the feed rate increases at a given temper- ature, the weight per cent carbon on feed decreases as might be expected, but the weight per cent carbon on catalyst remains sub- stantially constant.
V/ V/ HOUR
0.6
0.8
1 . 0 1 . 2
NATURAL CATALYST
0
A
0
V
SYNTHETIC CATALYST
6
A
E
i
V
c 16 ;i 12 9 10 z g
2 1 4
- 1
0 8
2 7
0 m 6
a 9 5
$ 4 800 820 840 860 880 900 920 940 960 980
CATALYST TEMPERATURE, O F .
Figure 2.
Carbon Formation vs. Cracking Temperature for 2-Hour Cracking Periods Another example of the constancy of carbon formation on cata- lyst for a given residence time, regardless of feed rate, is furnished by data obtained on catalytic cracking of pure compounds. Both cetane and Decalin were cracked with natural catalyst in a small unit at 850" F. for a process period of 2 hours and at feed rates varying from 0.6 to 2.4 v/v/hr. After each period the catalyst was removed for carbon determination by combustion and was replaced by a fresh charge. The data are presented in Table 11.
Here again it is evident that the weight per cent carbon on cata- lyst is relatively independent of feed rate.
A practical demonstration that per cent carbon on catalyst is virtually unaffected by feed rate was furnished some years ago in the operation of a semiplant-scale, fixed-bed catalytic cracking unit. In each reactor there were four catalyst beds of equal height, vertically disposed one above the other. During the process period the flow o f oil vapors was through the four beds in series. During regeneration, the flow of gases was through the four beds in parallel in order to minimize pressure drop. The indi- vidual temperature records for each bed during regeneration indi- cated that about the same amount of carbon was burned from each bed. This is equivalent to saying that the carbon on catalyst was independent of feed rate, because the feed-space-velocity (v/v/hr.) in the case of the first bed was four times that for the total reactor.
Much thought and speculation have been directed to answering the question as to why carbon on catalyst for a given residence time should be relatively independent of feed rate. The charac- teristics of the hydrocarbons in contact with the catalyst are continually changing as the feed stock progresses through the catalyst bed, and also different feed stocks differ in their carbon- forming tendencies. However, consider what happens as the feed stock passes through the bed of catalyst. It is converted to an increasing extent into (a) gasoline and gas which have less tend- ency to carbonize than the original feed and ( b )  cycle gas oil which has more tendency to carbonize than the original feed.
To the degree that these two tendencies balance each other, the extent o f carbon formation on catalyst will not differ at any level in the catalyst bed at any given time; this means that carbon on catalyst is independent of feed rate within limits. This phe- nomenon is thus ascribed to a fortuitous balance between the carbonizing tendencies of the unconverted feed and the total prod- ucts of reaction. It is not proved or claimed that this obscrva- tion will hold for all feed stocks, all catalysts, or an extreme vari- ation in feed rates. In fact it seems remarkable that the general- ization holds as broadly as indicated by the results presented in this paper.
The data in Table I permit a study of the effect of temperature on carbon formation. Figure 2 shows how carbon formation on catalyst increases with cracking temperature. The correlation 15 rather good, and indicates that the carbon formation doubl(>> for approximately 190-200" F. increase in cracking temperaturr As indicated earlier, there is generally a good correlatioii be- tween feed stock conversion and carbon yield based on feed for a given catalyst, feed stock, and temperature. As an examplc, tlrw data obtained in a fixed-bed study on East Texas gas oil and iyii- thetic catalyst at 850' and at various feed rates and cracking pe- riods are portrayed in Figure 3. The runs involved are the same as those already discussed in connection with Figure 1. Figure 3 shows a fairly good linear correlation on log-log paper betn ecn conversion and carbon yield on feed. The one point conaidrr- Table I .Fixed-Bed Catalytic Cracking of East Texas Gas Oil for Process Periods of 2 Hours


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the composition of coke deposits in catalytic systems, particularly in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, vary across different reaction conditions and catalyst types, and what analytical techniques have been employed to elucidate the complex nature and diversity of coke constituents in these systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 