Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is enhanced by reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation, as seen with Ca addition, which boosts propylene selectivity and stability. DMRA analysis reveals a lower deactivation function (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C for Ca-promoted catalysts, compared to non-promoted ones (0.22 h-1 and 0.63). This modification slightly increases activation energy, initially reducing activity but improving resistance against coke-induced deactivation, thus optimizing steady-state performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Lewis acid sites, originating from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in propane conversion. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits superior activity. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high yield and regenerability, is sustainable for industrial propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Notably, PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintained high propane conversion and propylene selectivity over 20 days, demonstrating slow deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Cr/Z-5(260), synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH, highlighting the critical role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in dehydrogenation reactions. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5, offer a unique environment for catalysis, with Brnsted acid sites enhancing propane adsorption and activation. Cr loading on HZSM-5 does not affect its crystallite structure, while acidity properties are crucial for catalytic performance. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. Strategic support modification is necessary to achieve high selectivity and stability in PDH reactions. Physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments elucidate the role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, enhancing CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite high cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Metal promotion of Pt improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, enhancing catalytic activity with larger pore sizes by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts, benefiting from advancements in computational methods. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys increase the dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy exhibits lower reactivity due to a deeper d-band center. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. The ultimate goal is to identify optimal catalysts for specific chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, where Pb blocks Pt3 sites and Ca enriches Pt1 sites, optimizing the catalyst for PDH. This double modification strategy maximizes the ensemble effect, favoring CH scissions while inhibiting side reactions, thus enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Electron-enriched Pt1 sites act as ideal active sites, suppressing side reactions in PDH, and the surface decoration of Pb on PtGa nanoparticles blocks the Pt3 sites, while Ca acts as an electron-donating agent around the nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Increasing acidity alters Pt properties, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This interaction is critical for optimizing performance, as demonstrated in decalin ring opening, where cracking reactions are suppressed on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and the presence of Al3+ sites that anchor metals like Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 allows for the dispersion of Ga3+ cations, improving PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, leading to superior PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation, affecting coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal methods, offer enhanced structural and catalytic stability for PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic properties for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhancing ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology preservation, with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, measured by argon adsorption, suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, catalysts' physicochemical properties, notably NaCl excess, enhance MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, suppress acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability require high external acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores become stable catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by propylene adsorption configuration and strength. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Acidic supports and coke mobility play roles in coke inhibition. Specific supports like Al2O3, SiO2, and CeO2 have distinct effects on catalytic properties, with Al2O3 nanosheets anchoring Pt atoms for stability, SiO2 enabling Pt-based bimetals, and CeO2's redox properties aiding in coke elimination. Supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution enhance metal particle dispersion. Acid-base properties and thermal stability of supports are critical for Pt-based catalysts. Acidic sites should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. Doping with Mg or using alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K can poison strong acid sites and reduce coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and 2D transition metal carbides (MXenes) offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are stable supports in acidic/basic media. Each support's characteristics affect catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including surface area-to-metal loading ratio, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, impacting activity based on loading, support, and preparation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic supports with low medium and strong acid sites lead to more active and stable catalysts. K addition reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Acidic support materials, like chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and resistance to deactivation and coking, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create stronger Lewis acidity, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies to enhance diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity to 98.5% and stability. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to non-promoted catalysts (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63), indicating improved resistance against coke. The PDH reaction's activation energy slightly increases for Ca-promoted catalysts due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially reducing activity but improving steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 are pivotal, with γ-Al2O3 showing higher activity due to more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and conversion rate. Its regenerability, allowing recovery after deactivation, makes it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including silanol nests in zeolites synthesized with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, confirmed by spectroscopies, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with an activation period to reach full conversion. Propane conversion initially exceeds equilibrium values. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites are pivotal, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores facilitate Cr dispersion and stabilization. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Support selection is crucial for optimized catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports like Al2O3 affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P and Mg modifications can decrease VOx polymerization, disperse V2O5 crystallites, and increase active V3+ species, enhancing stability and catalytic efficiency. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Cation exchange can create polarizing effects, enhancing CH activation. Strategies to enhance alkene selectivity include controlling proton site strength and eliminating proton sites for stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of larger zeolite pore sizes on lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimizes overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational approaches. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, critically affect dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits superior stability in PDH, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, thus suppressing side reactions. This strategic double modification optimizes performance, achieving exceptional stability at 600C for up to 1 month.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, affecting acidity. This interplay between metal and acid sites, observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions, is crucial for reactions requiring both active sites, impacting catalytic selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites and interacts with Ga2O3 to enhance PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Surface active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 boost non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Al2O3's structure, particularly surface acidity, affects propane adsorption and activation. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as per NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn introduces Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite surface areas and micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably NaCl's enhancement of stability and Pt dispersion, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal conditions, including high external surface acid site concentrations and specific calcination temperatures, improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability, as evidenced by the role of NaCl and washing techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, manipulating metal-support interactions significantly enhances Pt particle stability. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites form stabilizing bonds with atomically dispersed Pt, anchoring particles. Lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined in Sn-zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores exhibit high catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures due to strong interactions with support materials, optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, while surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Acidic supports and coke mobility play roles in coke inhibition. Specific supports like Al2O3, SiO2, and CeO2 have unique effects on catalytic performance, with Al2O3's acidity needing control to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, while CeO2's redox properties aid in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable and inert, improving catalytic stability. Each support's characteristics can alter selectivity and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, influenced by loading, support, and preparation, can be optimized for activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, with high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites, are crucial for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are necessary for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Acidic support materials can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Post-synthetic strategies that create stronger Lewis acidity improve catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways, as demonstrated by optimal reaction conditions achieving high furfural concentration tolerance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, with morphology affecting diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, significantly enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model applied to propane conversion data reveals lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts compared to non-promoted ones. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst is attributed to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves resistance against coke deactivation, leading to superior steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is directly linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, showing the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including silanol nests in zeolites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, confirmed by spectroscopies, exhibit fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, enhancing catalytic durability and selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity for 20 days. Metal nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y with a 3:1 atomic ratio. Catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Deposited coke species on spent catalysts are quantified at 37 wt%. Catalyst loading inversely affects propane conversion, with lower loadings increasing metal dispersion and decreasing particle size, but reducing durability due to a higher zeolite support fraction. Support modification strategies optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions, with high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) showing high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolite supports, especially HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for reactions, where acidic sites play a critical role in alkane conversion. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, vital for activity and stability. Support selection for Cr-based catalysts is significant for PDH, with zeolites' tunable acidity and thermal stability making them ideal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Recent studies show electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H-ZSM-5 has lower alkene selectivity due to unexchanged proton sites. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity, but faces challenges with coke formation. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and larger pore sizes enhancing catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal distances between active sites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Promoters like late transition metals and Au atoms increase robustness against coking and shift the d band of alloys, affecting catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties are critical. The double modification of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites creates an ultra-stable catalytic system. This strategy suppresses side reactions, enhancing stability and performance, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at 600C without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt can reduce the strength of acid sites, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Strategic modification of support acidity can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances performance through its stability and the presence of Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, as seen in commercial γ-Al2O3. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal method, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta due to Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, indicating strong interaction. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes indicate preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction, enhancing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl in MFI-zeolite boosts stability and Pt dispersion, curbs sintering and acidity in propane dehydrogenation. Post-calcination washing redistributes water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds, enhancing activity and stability. Optimal performance is achieved with high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios of 4070, 400-500°C calcination, water washing, and proper component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt, boosting selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined in zeolite frameworks or mesopores exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong support interactions, ensuring stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to coke formation. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation of active components, increasing electron richness to weaken Pt(C-C) bonds, poisoning acid sites to avoid coke deposition, cofeeding streams like H2 and CO2, enhancing oxygen mobility for coke elimination, and transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports. Support properties, like controlled acidity and high surface area, prevent undesirable coke and improve stability. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties to eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke, while carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the surface area-to-metal loading ratio, support type, and reducibility, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Wu et al. reported that the ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation, as noted by Harlin et al. Silica doping of alumina support, as tested by Sokolov et al., improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. The structure of the support, such as mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide, increases resistance to coking. K addition reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, boosting conversion and selectivity, as observed with 1000 ppm Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga. Support modification strategies, such as using mixed oxides, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites enhances efficiency and selectivity by promoting desired chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Strategic support modification, including the development of nanosized supports and those with specific morphologies, optimizes these properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for PDH reactions, avoiding CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions. Enhancing diffusion efficiency through tailored supports improves catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and enhances alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity to 98.5% and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance against coke. This results in better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits superior activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, showing the highest yield and reversible deactivation, is regenerable and thus sustainable for industrial propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. Catalysts like PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. An activation period precedes full conversion, with propane conversion initially exceeding equilibrium values. TGA analysis reveals 37 wt% coke deposition on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalysts, indicating the importance of strategic support modification for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites significantly impact catalytic performance, with Brnsted sites enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores provide an environment for Cr dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective PDH catalyst supports. Strategic support modification, focusing on Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher crystallization temperatures for VOx/Al2O3 catalysts increase Lewis acid sites and influence surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, enhancing anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing protons. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity and stability for alkane dehydrogenation. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while metal promoters like Sn, Ga, and Zn improve stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. Recent findings suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with redox properties aiding lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size's slight effect on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches for complex catalytic systems. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency by weakening CH bond interaction and inhibiting propylene adsorption, respectively, as evidenced by studies showing Au's role in increasing dissociation barrier height and PtCu's ability to suppress secondary cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties significantly impact performance. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, optimizes geometric and electronic effects. This strategy enhances stability and suppresses side reactions, resulting in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, showing no significant deactivation for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt's electronic properties are influenced by support acidity, with efficiency and selectivity enhanced as acidity increases. Conversely, Pt presence diminishes acid site strength, impacting catalytic performance. Strategic support modification, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions on Pt-modified catalysts, is essential for optimized catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors Pt and Ru sites, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal method, offer improved PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta a robust PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, catalyst efficiency is enhanced by NaCl, which boosts MFI-zeolite stability, promotes Pt dispersion, and curbs acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity through Pt compound redispersion. Optimized conditions, like high surface acid sites and specific Na/Pt ratios, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt, while heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn enhance selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite pores ensure high-temperature stability and efficiency, attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt atom coordination affects propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while surface structures govern coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke formation include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Controlling support acidity and using high surface area supports enhances metal dispersion and catalytic stability. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent coke formation. Mesoporous materials and 2D carbides like MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are chemically inert and stable, enhancing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing deactivation. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, create stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired transformations, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. To enhance catalytic performance, strategies focus on improving diffusion efficiency through the use of nanosized supports and specific morphologies, as summarized in Table 3.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and enhances alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity to 98.5% and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance against coke formation. This catalyst has a slightly higher PDH activation energy, enhancing Pt-Ge alloy formation and reducing initial activity, yet it outperforms the unmodified catalyst in steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, demonstrates superior activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, exhibiting high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintaining activity for 20 days. However, PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Propane conversion exceeds equilibrium values early on, and spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalysts have 37 wt% coke species deposited. Support modification strategies, including the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Zeolite-supported catalysts offer a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal, as revealed by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 stabilize Cr species, ensuring high catalytic activity and stability. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. Support modification strategies, such as adjusting the Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio, can optimize catalytic performance for enhanced efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H-ZSM-5 with unexchanged proton sites shows lower alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites have weaker proton sites than aluminosilicates, potentially enhancing alkene selectivity for alkane dehydrogenation. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Pt promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer. The electronic promotion effect of Sn aligns with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, with potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, indicating a future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy, as seen in PtGaCaPb/SiO2, results in exceptional stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, with almost no deactivation observed.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity modifies the electronic properties of metals such as Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Conversely, Pt reduces acid site strength, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid sites. Strategic support modification optimizes these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions by anchoring Pt and Ru, enhancing activity. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structural diversity, like surface acidity, affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as per NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's weak and strong acid sites, with Si-Beta lacking acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are critical. Excess NaCl boosts stability, Pt dispersion, and prevents sintering while reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites and washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchoring atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability for propane dehydrogenation. Sn-zeolite framework confinement and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores create stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is influenced by physicochemical properties, with Pt atom coordination affecting selectivity: saturated atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include geometric separation for improved selectivity, electron richness to weaken Pt bonds and suppress deep dehydrogenation, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke, cofeeding streams for coke elimination, enhancing oxygen mobility for improved stability, and coke transfer to prolong catalyst life. Support properties, such as surface area and acid-base characteristics, prevent undesirable coke and isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, with CeO2's redox properties aiding in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface area and stability. Each support's characteristics can alter selectivity and stability by influencing metal particles and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences the formation of vanadium species, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Using silica to dope alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions, can affect catalytic performance. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance by enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking, optimizing acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity, with morphological features influencing diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, avoiding CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies summarized in Table 3 optimize these properties, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces to enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The promoted catalyst exhibits a deactivation function of 0.05 h^-1 and a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C, compared to 0.22 h^-1 and 0.63 for the non-promoted sample, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but results in better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 are pivotal, with γ-Al2O3-200, rich in strong acid sites, achieving the highest propane conversion and selectivity. This catalyst's regenerability, allowing recovery from deactivation, is key for industrial sustainability. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the presence of silanol nests in zeolites synthesized using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, confirmed by spectroscopy, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br showing slow deactivation over 20 days. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 excels in PDH, showcasing high activity, selectivity, and stability. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly affect catalytic performance. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, critical for high catalytic efficiency. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores facilitate Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring activity and stability. Support choice is pivotal for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with zeolites offering optimal acidic sites for performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by affecting Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P and Mg modifications can enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst stability and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation (Quote 1). PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence (Quote 2). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape, channel, and cavity (Quote 3). Active site nature and density impact framework dispersion forces (Quote 4). Electrostatic fields between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon adsorbate bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites, typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involve alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity than cheaper alternatives. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is evident. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation, while Lewis base-assisted deprotonation explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent report suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C through the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties significantly impact performance. Metal oxides' stability, influenced by the zeolite framework, and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity are critical. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier based on the Sabatier principle enhances catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, and case studies provide molecular-level insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are pivotal. Strategic modification of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, enhancing catalytic stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification results in a catalyst with exceptional stability, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of metals, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Metals like platinum can modify support acidity, reducing acid site strength, as evidenced by the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts. This suggests strategies for optimizing catalytic performance through support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's structural advantages and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation, influencing coke deposition. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalyst properties for enhanced efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The interaction between Pt and Zn species, evidenced by enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicates strong electronic interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures post-metal incorporation. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, improves Pt dispersion, and moderates zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, featuring high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing, enhance Pt dispersion and stability, crucial for catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions, like Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchoring Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds, enhances Pt particle stability. Heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores become stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, demonstrating the effectiveness of strategic support modification.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties to eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke, while carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites can be detrimental. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction of molybdenum oxide catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, with Mo present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. The study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion promotion on Zr-Al-Beta boosts catalytic performance and resistance to deactivation. The type and concentration of ions affect acidity and textural properties, impacting efficiency. Post-synthetic modifications, such as enhancing Lewis acidity, optimize activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with active sites promotes desired transformations and avoids unwanted reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, with morphology affecting diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies, summarized in Table 3, include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces to improve diffusion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca reduces Al2O3 acid centers and enhances alloy formation, leading to improved propylene selectivity (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C and 24 h TOS) and stability. DMRA analysis shows lower deactivation rates (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating enhanced resistance to deactivation by coke. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, decreases initial activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, demonstrates superior activity in propane dehydrogenation, where conversion rates correlate with the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, showing the highest yield, is regenerable and thus sustainable for industrial use, making it an optimal choice for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy (Quotes 1, 2). These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity (Quote 3). Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt (Quote 4). PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability (Quote 5). The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition (Quote 14). Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount when catalysts are fully activated (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) exhibits high PDH activity and stability. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for alkane conversion, with Cr/HZSM-5's Brnsted acid sites enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, boosting catalytic performance. Support selection is critical for Cr-based PDH catalysts, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it ideal. Physicochemical characterizations and Na+ doping experiments elucidate the role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing crystallization temperature of the support enhances VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by boosting Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, enhancing catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, and catalyst performance is influenced by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with precursor impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite high cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Metal promotion of Pt improves stability but accelerates deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the role of metal center redox properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite structure and pore size effects on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency and anti-coking ability, respectively. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically geometric and electronic effects, are crucial in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with outstanding stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Conversely, Pt presence reduces acid site strength, potentially improving selectivity in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for better catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, anchors Pt and Ru via Al3+ sites, enhancing activity. Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction performance. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyzes isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structure, like surface acidity, influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer improved PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates below 100 nm, with close contact between Pt and Zn species confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. XRD patterns display BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts, with Pt introduction not altering Zn dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, are vital for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, boosts Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order during calcination improves Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles on catalyst surfaces, with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchoring atomically dispersed Pt through Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts due to strong interactions between Pt particles and support structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, critically affect dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Optimization strategies include geometric separation to inhibit side reactions, electron richness to weaken Pt bonds and suppress deep dehydrogenation, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke deposition, and cofeeding streams to enhance coke elimination. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size improve metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation help eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable and inert supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the presence of MgO, which reduces coke formation, enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide, similar to vanadium oxide, exists as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to the formation of acid sites. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification alters acidity and textural properties, correlating with improved catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic methods that create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity boost catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and prevents unwanted reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, but excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies for enhancing catalytic efficiency include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces, as summarized in Table 3.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    