Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation upon Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63), indicating enhanced resistance to deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, which initially decreases activity but improves performance in terms of both activity and selectivity at steady state conditions. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is directly linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. The challenge lies in developing efficient PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 zeolite for high selectivity and stability. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly affect catalytic performance. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are key for propane adsorption and activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation through bimolecular and unimolecular pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 exhibit high alkene selectivity, with CH activation mechanisms differing based on metal. Proton site strength, influenced by framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity and stability for alkane dehydrogenation. Promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Recent findings suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with Lewis base-assisted deprotonation and redox properties playing key roles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier of 453 pm, based on the Sabatier principle, enhances catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Case studies provide insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic modifications. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable system that suppresses side reactions, as evidenced by negligible deactivation over 1 month at 600C. This double modification strategy optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This interplay suggests strategic support modification could optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Al2O3's structural advantages and Al3+ sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3 serves as a common support, with unsaturated Al3+ sites anchoring Pt and Ru for enhanced dispersion. Ga2O3's interaction with Al2O3 allows Ga3+ to disperse in γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, containing penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability in propane dehydrogenation, promoting Pt dispersion and preventing sintering, while also suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, and strategic component introduction, significantly improve Pt dispersion and overall catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores become stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties, like surface area and pore size, influence catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation. CeO2 interacts strongly with metals, trapping Pt ions and eliminating coke with water vapor. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases with fewer coke deposits. MXenes and carbon materials offer large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites can be detrimental. Silica doping of alumina support enhances stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Using silica to dope the alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. The addition of MgO can improve the performance of supported vanadium catalysts by reducing coke formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The nature of the support is crucial as it not only determines the mechanical properties of the catalyst but also affects the interaction between the carrier and the active phase, which can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. For instance, alumina is the most common support, and the method of producing chromia-alumina catalysts can vary, affecting the catalyst's performance. The choice of support can also influence the catalytic activity, with different supports leading to varying orders of activity based on conversion and yield. Zirconia, as an alternative support, has been investigated for its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites, and mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for their catalytic properties in dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as seen in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials, can also influence catalytic behavior, with strong acid sites affecting cracking reactions and medium strength acid sites impacting dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize the properties of catalysts for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions can effectively poison undesirable acid sites, improving selectivity. Using zirconia as a support can prevent the formation of mixed oxides and offer higher thermal stability and surface area. Silica, with its high surface area, can stabilize Cr6+ sites, while mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors can provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability against sintering. Understanding the role of acidity in catalytic behavior can also guide the modification of supports to favor dehydrogenation reactions over cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm changes in acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies, like forming open Lewis acid sites, further optimize catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, promoting desired reactions while minimizing undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity, while morphological qualities affect diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to negative impacts. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Diffusion efficiency in heterogeneous catalysts is determined by support morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties. Strategies to enhance efficiency include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance against coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the PDH reaction in the promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but ultimately improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is directly linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y, with a 3:1 atomic ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, play a critical role in determining catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for high catalytic performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide a special environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and thermal stability, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports is crucial, with HZSM-5 zeolite's suitable acidic sites making it a good support for CrOx catalysts. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are key for propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increases active V3+ species, and improves anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters like P can beneficially affect both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, and different supports can impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites, formed in situ, consist of alkyl carbenium ions held to framework oxygen ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation involves protons and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 exhibit high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier enhances catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides improve coking resistance, while Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interaction, increasing the dissociation barrier height. These insights are crucial for enhancing catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites can synergize these effects, leading to ultra-stable catalytic systems. This double modification enhances catalytic stability and suppresses side reactions, resulting in outstanding performance in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites, as observed in the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites due to its structural stability. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, boosting performance in PDH reactions. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation, affecting coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking structural and catalytic stabilities against impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalysts. The desorption behavior of C3H6 in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is a critical factor. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn introduces Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal the local electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Surface areas and micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability and promotes Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high surface acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, and washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Coordinatively unsaturated Al3+ sites in Al2O3 stabilize atomically dispersed Pt through Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) also stabilize Pt particles, producing selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores exhibit high catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures due to strong interactions with the support.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with Pt atom coordination affecting propane dehydrogenation selectivity and surface structures governing coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. For instance, controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li and Na can poison strong acid sites, reducing coke on Al2O3. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase, while Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates the formation of Pt-based bimetals. CeO2's strong interaction with metal particles traps Pt ions and, with water vapor, eliminates coke deposition due to its redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke and improving stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their properties, are also used as supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, and MgO addition can improve selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance by improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting catalytic efficiency. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways, such as dehydration, polymerization, and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption, while excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies for support modification, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. DMRA analysis reveals lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites positively correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source leading to silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolites offer a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are key for catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic efficiency. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports is critical for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing catalyst stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize catalyst properties for enhanced efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods, and developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for future dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by active site nature and density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, crucial for CH activation. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is critical for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Promotion of Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Surface oxygen species play a significant role in catalysis, with potassium minimizing the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a crucial role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the distance between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, especially in PDH. PtGaCaPb/SiO2, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, exhibits exceptional stability in PDH at 600C for up to 1 month, demonstrating the effectiveness of strategic support modification in enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Conversely, the presence of Pt alters the acidity of supports, reducing acid site strength. This reciprocal influence, observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions, suggests strategies for optimizing catalyst properties for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and the presence of Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Al2O3 without hydroxyl groups activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta with enhanced ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy reveals small aggregates and close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts and enhances Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability through redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, 400-500 C calcination, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by the adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Alkaline metals can poison acid sites, preventing coke on Al2O3 surfaces. Doped Mg in Al2O3 forms stable phases, and Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms enhance stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetal formation, while CeO2's strong interaction traps Pt ions and redox properties aid in coke elimination. Supports with adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas prevent coke deposits, improving stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their properties, are also effective supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration influence catalytic efficiency, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, can optimize catalytic properties by tuning acidic sites, promoting desired reactions while avoiding undesired pathways like dehydration and polymerization. An example is the preparation of Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, showing superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600°C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating better resistance to deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation, with conversion rates positively linked to Lewis acid sites. This catalyst's regenerability, allowing restoration after deactivation, makes it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtY alloy nanoparticles, formed with silanol nests in zeolites, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These alloys show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts with silanol nests have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with rapid deactivation in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl. Strategic support modification, like using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 exhibits high activity and stability for PDH. The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites is crucial, as they enhance catalytic performance. Zeolites provide a special environment for catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. The selection of supports, such as HZSM-5, is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, while the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 ensure dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, guaranteeing high activity and stability. Strategies for optimizing catalytic performance include adjusting Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio, as well as understanding the interactions between reactant/product molecules and catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing with the amount of acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion interactions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing protons. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile noble metal catalyst for alkanes, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity than cheaper alternatives. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation, while Lewis base-assisted deprotonation explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and redox properties as future research directions for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, as observed for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, with Pt's properties influenced by the acidity of the support, increasing as support acidity rises. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of acid sites on supports, affecting pyridine desorption and suppressing cracking reactions during decalin ring opening, potentially enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites for anchoring Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Al2O3's structure, particularly surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites, affects propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, demonstrate efficient PDH catalysis. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by FTIR spectra. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability and promotes Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and suppressing acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn propane dehydrogenation catalysts. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high propane dehydrogenation performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility inhibition are crucial. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 enhance stability and redox properties, respectively. SiO2 supports allow for Pt-based bimetals formation. Mesoporous materials, MXenes, and carbon materials offer active sites and anti-coking properties. Each support's characteristics affect catalytic selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm changes in acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, correlating to acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions and avoids undesired pathways like dehydration, polymerization, and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to negative impacts. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions. Diffusion efficiency in heterogeneous catalysts is determined by support morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties. Strategies to enhance catalytic efficiency include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability (Quote 2). The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating enhanced coke resistance (Quotes 4 and 5). Higher activation energy for the PDH reaction in the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance (Quote 6). Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably acid strength and stability, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is crucial for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 directly correlates with propane conversion rate, highlighting their role as active sites. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, which shows the highest yield, is reversible, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopies, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of about 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts supported on zeolites with silanol nests have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst shows 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolites provide a unique environment for catalysis, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, significantly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increasing active V3+ species and improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, affecting catalyst performance with different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 yield high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites than aluminosilicates, potentially improving selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Metal promotion of Pt improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure. Optimal AlAl distance of 453 pm corresponds to a minimum overall barrier. Computational studies can access more complicated catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites enhances catalytic stability and selectivity. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic effects, creating an ultra-stable system for PDH with outstanding stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, which in turn affects the strength of acid sites. This interplay enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, while Pt presence reduces acid site strength, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, enhances performance through its stability and structural advantages. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, reveals that H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. All samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating well-preserved structures. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta is a robust PDH catalyst due to close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, and curbs zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved through high external surface acid sites, controlled Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and strategic component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn, producing selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, impacting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity, as evidenced by improved recalcitrance to deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration influence catalytic performance, correlating with acidity and textual properties. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, can optimize these properties by tuning acidic sites, promoting chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways. For instance, a Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites showed superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers and boosts alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating better coke resistance. The Ca-promoted catalyst has slightly higher PDH activation energy due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy that initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, exemplified by Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high strong acid site levels, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Homogeneously distributed with a size of 2 nm, they contain Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. An activation period is observed before full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 shows high activity and stability for PDH. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for alkane conversion, with Brnsted acid sites enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact catalytic performance. Zeolites, due to their high surface area and tunable acidity, serve as effective supports. High amounts of acidic sites in HZSM-5 are detrimental to PDH, but suitable acidic sites make it a good support for CrOx catalysts. Support modification strategies, focusing on Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, are essential for optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies, such as varying crystallization temperatures, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, higher crystallization temperatures increase Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the density of active sites. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with the charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer higher selectivity due to weaker proton sites. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity and stability, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, or Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Copper-aluminum framework materials show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a role for surface oxygen species and a redox mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimizes overall barriers, as per the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, enabled by advancements in computational methods. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally. [7] [8] [9] [19] [21]", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects, as seen in PDH, are critical. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation over a month at 600C. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy optimizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This interplay between metal and support properties offers a strategy for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its stability and structure. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's local electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses zeolite acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. High external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and the order of component introduction during joint calcination of NaCl and Pt precursor improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are also stabilized on oxide substrate heteroatoms and in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II), creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores improve catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures, attributed to the confinement of PtSn particles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with Pt atom coordination affecting selectivity and surface structures governing coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling acidity prevents undesirable coke and isomerization, while high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit unique properties. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support impacts catalytic properties, affecting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves vanadium catalysts' dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is comparable to vanadium oxide, with species dependent on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance by improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, like the post-synthetic method, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, boosting catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids unwanted reactions, such as dehydration and polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity causing negative effects. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for the Ca-promoted catalyst. This enhanced resistance against coke deactivation leads to better steady-state performance. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst due to improved GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves overall efficiency and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic properties for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is the active site for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites and controlling crystalline structure, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, homogeneously distributed and approximately 2 nm in size, contain both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Developing efficient PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts' performance is elucidated through physicochemical analysis, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, revealing the importance of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites. High reaction temperatures cause coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is crucial, with zeolites' high surface area and tunable acidity making them ideal. HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites is optimal for CrOx catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increasing active V3+ species and improving anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and VOx/ZrO2 are promising due to their high surface area and ability to produce active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, including the use of ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid secondary reactions. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect performance. Catalyst activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, and different supports can impact performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the density of active sites. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while metal promoters like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improve stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes the negative impact of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger zeolite pore sizes lower activation barriers. Optimal active site distances, like AlAl in zeolites, minimize overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by computational advancements. Case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms in complex systems, offering insights unattainable by experimental methods. [7] Metal oxides' stability is affected by zeolite framework structure. [8] Larger zeolite pore sizes slightly enhance catalytic activity. [9] Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites corresponds to a minimum overall barrier. [19] The goal is to find optimal catalysts for chemical processes. [21] Catalyst-support interactions add complexity to studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb for geometric modification to block Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, results in an ultra-stable catalytic system. This strategy, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, exhibits outstanding stability in PDH at 600C for up to 1 month, with almost no deactivation observed.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the electronic properties of Pt catalysts are influenced by the acidity of the support, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of the support's acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This interplay is observed through changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the potential for strategic support modification to optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors Pt and Ru sites due to its unsaturated Al3+ sites. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction enhances PDH activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, benchmark structural and catalytic stability. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts by promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and reducing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and the strategic introduction of components.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Sn-zeolite framework confinement boosts catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt particle interaction. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency linked to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and prevent coke. Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, with CeO2's redox properties aiding in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic selectivity and stability uniquely.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance and selectivity by altering Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. This treatment improves resistance to deactivation and coking, with optimal results at 0.025 M-Na+ concentration, achieving 97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways like dehydration, polymerization, and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength affects selectivity, while morphology impacts diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity leading to negative effects. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    