Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity to 98.5% and stability. This modification reduces deactivation (0.05 h^-1 for Ca-promoted vs. 0.22 h^-1 for non-promoted) and increases residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating better resistance to coke. Consequently, the activation energy for the PDH reaction rises, promoting Pt-Ge alloy formation and improving steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3 are crucial, with γ-Al2O3 exhibiting more sites than θ-Al2O3 and thus higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, showing the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. The amount of Lewis acid sites directly correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites for the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing zeolites with silanol nests using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, confirmed by spectroscopy, facilitates the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion initially exceeding equilibrium values. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintains activity over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, exhibiting high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, are responsible for high catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores provide an optimal environment for Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity, serve as ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, directly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and strategic cation choice avoids catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Redox cycles are crucial for CH activation on certain sites. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites improves alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential of redox properties in achieving enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and the slight enhancement of catalytic activity by larger zeolite pore sizes lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimize overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, and computational advancements enable the exploration of complex catalytic systems, providing insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms that are challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are crucial. A promising design involves modifying PtGa intermetallics: Pb geometrically blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This strategy creates an ultra-stable system with exceptional PDH stability at high temperatures for up to 1 month.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing its catalytic qualities. Conversely, Pt's presence diminishes the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites, thus impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly those of Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3 anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, while the Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction enhances PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 boosts non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene, and surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. A one-step hydrothermal method synthesizes efficient CoAl2O3HT catalysts for PDH reactions, demonstrating the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in Co-catalyzed reactions. These insights highlight the importance of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably excess NaCl, enhance stability in propane dehydrogenation, promoting Pt dispersion and preventing sintering while suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, and component introduction order, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for catalytic efficiency in dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while heteroatoms in oxide substrates tightly secure Pt particles. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst. Sn-zeolite framework confinement boosts catalytic performance due to strong Pt particle interaction. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to mesopore confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by the adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke formation include geometric separation, enhancing electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, increasing oxygen mobility, and facilitating coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties, such as surface area and pore size, are crucial for controlling coke and enhancing catalytic performance. Alkaline metals and doping can modify support acidity, while specific supports like Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties beneficial for dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and carbon-based supports provide active sites and prevent coke deposition, improving catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Vanadium species reducibility influences performance, and MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Acidic support materials, such as chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation, achieving optimal results like a 97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol. Post-synthetic methods create stronger Lewis acidic open sites, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired transformations and prevents undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, with morphology affecting diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Zeolites favor Lewis acid sites for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces, as detailed in the provided strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst efficiency in dehydrogenation reactions is optimized by modifying support with Ca, which reduces acid centers and promotes alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates (0.05 h-1 vs 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs 0.63), improving performance despite slightly higher activation energy. This is attributed to better resistance against coke, maintaining activity and selectivity at steady state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 are pivotal, with γ-Al2O3 exhibiting more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, leading to higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield and regenerability, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are essential for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br showing slow deactivation over 20 days. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance, as confirmed by physicochemical analysis, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores enhance Cr dispersion and stability, crucial for high activity. HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites make it an ideal support for CrOx in PDH. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. VOx/ZrO2's enhanced performance is attributed to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, including the use of supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can beneficially affect both supports and active species geometrically and electronically.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkoxide intermediates formed in situ, while unimolecular pathways involve charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing protons. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating a potential research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of pore size on catalytic activity, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, and theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes. Advancements in computational approaches enable deeper insights into complex catalytic systems, revealing mechanisms challenging to explore experimentally. Strategic support modification, such as the addition of promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides, can enhance anti-coking ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are crucial. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking and Ca as an electron-donating agent creates an ultra-stable catalytic system. This strategy enriches Pt1 sites, enhancing stability and suppressing side reactions, resulting in outstanding performance at high temperatures for extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity modifies the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Pt, in turn, alters the acidity of the support, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites, as seen in the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on modified catalysts. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances performance through structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites anchoring Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ for improved PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyzes isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structural diversity affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis, benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior in Co-catalyzed PDH is illustrated. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns exhibit BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, excess NaCl stabilizes MFI-zeolite catalysts, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing conditions, including high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and the order of component introduction, significantly improves Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions improve Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while heteroatoms in oxide substrates tightly stabilize Pt particles. Lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability for propane dehydrogenation. Strong Pt-framework interactions at Sn single-sites in zeolites and PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by propylene adsorption configuration and strength. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Controlling support acidity and using high surface area supports enhances metal dispersion and prevents undesirable reactions. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation, while CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and minimizing coke formation. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways, optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength influences selectivity, with proper acidity crucial for PDH reactions to avoid CC cracking. Morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties. For zeolites, Lewis acid sites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca reduces Al2O3 acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke formation. Although the activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst is higher due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, this initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance and selectivity. Strategic support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits superior activity in propane dehydrogenation. Notably, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and demonstrates regenerability, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are crucial for high performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for high activity and stability. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance bond polarization in hydrocarbons, aiding CH activation. Controlling proton site strength can enhance alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Promotion of Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis, and the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. Future research should focus on achieving lower temperature dehydrogenation using materials like porous copper-aluminum frameworks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex systems. Promoters like late transition metals and Au atoms enhance catalyst robustness and shift the d band of alloys, affecting dehydrogenation barriers.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH), the geometric and electronic properties of catalysts are pivotal. Strategic modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy, as demonstrated by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, achieves outstanding PDH stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports enhances the electronic properties of supported Pt, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites, potentially improving catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, boosting PDH activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, effectively disperse and stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, enhancing PDH performance at high space velocities. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 impacts propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. The effect of C3H6 desorption in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is significant. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's dual acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acidity post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acidity. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, vital for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology preservation despite Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not affect Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, excess NaCl stabilizes MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, and reduces acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity by redistributing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing Pt dispersion and stability involves high surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites and oxide substrate heteroatoms anchor Pt, while lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles for selective propane dehydrogenation. Strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores boost catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites can be detrimental. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity by adjusting acid sites, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. Post-synthetic support modification strategies create stronger Lewis acidic sites, promoting desired reactions and minimizing undesired pathways. Zr-Al-Beta zeolite, a modified catalyst, exhibits superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion, showcasing the effectiveness of strategic support modification.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity. Morphology influences diffusion efficiency, crucial for heterogeneous catalysts. Proper acidity is essential for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity leading to undesired outcomes like CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to enhance diffusion efficiency, such as needle-shaped, sheet-shaped, and mesh-shaped structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is enhanced by reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1 vs. 0.22 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. Despite a slightly higher activation energy due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, the promoted catalyst outperforms the non-promoted one in terms of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, particularly those arising from unsaturated AlIII sites, are critical. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The conversion rate of propane is directly proportional to the amount of Lewis acid sites, indicating their role as active sites. Among the catalysts, γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and regenerability, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications due to its reversible deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including silanol nests synthesized with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y nanoparticles, with a 3:1 Pt to Y atomic ratio, exhibit fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption and superior catalytic durability. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains high propane conversion and propylene selectivity for 20 days, with an activation period of 12 hours. However, PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. The TGA profile reveals 37 wt% coke deposition on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst. Support modification strategies, like the use of silanol nest-containing zeolites, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount, with increased metal dispersion at low loadings. The conversion-vs-loading relationship originates from the changing metal dispersion and particle size.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, provide a unique environment for reactions, with Brnsted acid sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion and enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for high activity and stability. Selecting supports for Cr-based catalysts is vital for PDH, with HZSM-5 zeolite's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing with acid site amount. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. An active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can beneficially affect supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is essential for vanadium-based catalysts, affecting performance through metalsupport interactions. Catalyst performance is influenced by the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, with different supports impacting activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions on the support vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and channel, and the nature and density of active sites affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkenes. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks can enhance CH activation. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions, while unimolecular pathways involve protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 yield high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites than aluminosilicates, potentially improving selectivity. However, excessive weakness in acidity reduces CH bond cleavage efficiency. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt excels in alkane reactions due to its activity, stability, and selectivity, but coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene side reactions. Metal promoters like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improve stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation. Lewis base-assisted deprotonation may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a role for redox properties in achieving this.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the size of zeolite pores, which slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. The existence of Au atoms weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability in PDH, with negligible deactivation over a month at 600C. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable system. This design synergizes promotion effects, enhancing PDH efficiency and selectivity. Tuning electronic properties and isolating Pt atoms can increase catalyst lifetime and suppress side reactions, optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports enhances Pt properties, while Pt reduces acid site strength, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This interplay is evident through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, underscoring the significance of support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt, Ru, and Ga3+ ions, improving PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting performance in PDH reactions at high space velocities. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modifications, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acid sites, and Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, especially chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances stability in MFI-zeolite catalysts, improves Pt dispersion, and reduces zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized performance is achieved with controlled parameters: high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and strategic component introduction, all crucial for superior Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Metal-support interactions enhance Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation. Pt is stabilized on Al2O3 via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds and on heteroatoms in oxide substrates. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores show high performance in propane dehydrogenation, attributed to strong interactions and confinement effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordination-saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation, with support acidity and coke mobility crucial for inhibiting coke. Optimization strategies include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as specific surface area and acid-base characteristics, affect catalytic stability. Controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization, while high surface area supports with uniform pore size distribution improve metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, preventing coke deposition. CeO2 supports trap Pt ions and eliminate coke deposition through redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports hinder large hydrocarbon formation, preventing coke deposits. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke deposition. MXenes and carbon materials offer large surface areas and stability, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species forming below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric species between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species, with VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds, affects catalytic performance. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, with species dependent on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Catalyst support is crucial, with alumina being the most common, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacting activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. Alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and minimizing coke formation. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, create stronger Lewis acidity, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites boosts efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, with proper acidity crucial for CH activation and avoiding CC cracking. Morphology affects diffusion efficiency, with Lewis acid sites in zeolites preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties by developing nanosized supports and synthesizing those with specific morphologies and high external surfaces, enhancing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, significantly enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance to coke formation. This results in superior performance in terms of both activity and selectivity at steady state conditions. The activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst is slightly higher (74.8 kJ/mol) due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but ultimately improves steady-state performance. Strategic support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is influenced by Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which are crucial for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates positively with propane conversion rates, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerable γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting the highest yield, is sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing Lewis acid sites and controlling crystalline structure, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests enable the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH, with Cr species and Brnsted acid sites playing a pivotal role. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite-supported catalysts offer channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer, crucial for alkane conversion. Physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping reveal that Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for high performance. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, while the zeolite's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring activity and stability. Support selection is critical for Cr-based PDH catalysts, with zeolites' tunable acidity and thermal stability making them suitable. HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites is optimal for CrOx catalysts in PDH, where Brnsted acid sites play a pivotal role in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. An active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation (Quote [1]). PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors (Quote [2]). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density (Quote [3]). Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction (Quote [5]). Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius (Quote [15]). Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons (Quote [22], [23], [24]). Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions (Quote [25]). Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 enhance alkene selectivity by replacing protons (Quote [34], [35], [36]). Proton site strength, influenced by framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering higher selectivity than aluminosilicates (Quote [43]). Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability (Quote [48]). Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions (Quote [49]). However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge (Quote [51]). Acid sites on supports promote side reactions (Quote [60]). Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 (Quote [61]). Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on selectivity (Quote [71]). The redox property of metal centers, as in copper-aluminum framework materials, may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction (Quote [77], [78], [79], [80], [81]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and larger pore sizes in zeolites, slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barriers. PtSn alloys exhibit lower reactivity due to deeper d-band centers. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, improving anti-coking ability. The ultimate goal is to find the best catalysts for chemical processes, enabled by computational studies. Lattice mismatch between particle and support influences site environments, and the complexity of systems limits complete DFT scans, focusing studies on specific catalyst aspects.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. The double modification of PtGa nanoparticles, involving Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent, enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable catalytic system, as demonstrated by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst's outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity influences the electronic properties of metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, metals can reduce the strength of acid sites on supports, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites. Strategic modification of support acidity can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors Pt and Ru sites, enhancing activity. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction efficiency. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer improved PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species, confirming Pt-Zn species formation by infrared spectroscopy. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The robustness of Pt-Zn/Si-Beta for PDH is attributed to close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, curbs sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Strategic support modification, including optimized calcination and component introduction, improves Pt dispersion and catalyst stability, as evidenced by NaCl's positive impact and the effectiveness of washing.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts, with performance attributed to strong Pt-Sn zeolite interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties like surface area and pore size distribution are crucial for Pt-based catalysts. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties for coke elimination. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation, while CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke. Carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance by enhancing selectivity and minimizing coke formation. This modification correlates with acidity and textural properties, optimizing efficiency. Post-synthetic methods create stronger Lewis acidic sites, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Strategic support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is critical for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces, as per strategies proposed to shorten diffusion paths or resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating better resistance against coke formation. This optimization strategy improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity, despite a slight increase in activation energy for the PDH reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 are critical, with γ-Al2O3-200 showing the highest yield due to its high level of strong acid sites. Propane conversion is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites, indicating their role as active sites. γ-Al2O3 has more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, enhancing activity. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, allowing recovery after deactivation, is vital for industrial sustainability. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy (Quotes 1, 2). These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity (Quote 3). Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt (Quote 4). PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability (Quote 5). Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion initially exceeding equilibrium values (Quotes 12, 13). The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation (Quote 6). Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions, showing high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 are critical, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact catalytic efficiency. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity and thermal stability, serve as effective supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 make it a good support for CrOx catalysts. Physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments confirm the role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increasing active V3+ species and improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr catalysts, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions influence catalyst performance. Catalyst activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, and performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions; higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions and zeolite frameworks' shape, channel, and cavity impact reactants. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Controlling proton site strength is crucial for alkene selectivity, with weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites favoring higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is critical for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. The presence of acid sites on supports promotes side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. The role of potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. Future research should focus on non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes, possibly using a porous copper-aluminum framework material for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers, play a crucial role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies, leveraging advancements in computational methods, aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, offering insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms that are challenging to explore experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, specifically in PDH. A promising design involves modifying PtGa intermetallics with Pb to geometrically block Pt3 sites and Ca to enrich Pt1 sites electronically. This strategy creates an ultra-stable catalytic system, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, which exhibits outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, with minimal deactivation. The double modification synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability and suppressing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Increased support acidity enhances Pt properties, boosting catalytic performance. Conversely, Pt presence reduces acid site strength, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid sites, as seen in the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Al2O3's structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions by anchoring metals like Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 enhances Ga3+ dispersion, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites effectively disperse and stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 enhance non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation, impacting PDH outcomes. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal methods, offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. Understanding C3H6 desorption behavior in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is crucial. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and specific interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH, as studied via FTIR spectra of CO adsorption. XRD patterns display BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating well-preserved structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl in MFI-zeolite catalysts boosts stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and the order of component introduction, notably improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions boost Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores form high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts due to strong interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, impacting propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke formation include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are critical; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetals formation. Strong CeO2-metal interactions trap Pt ions, and water vapor aids coke elimination due to CeO2's redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke deposits. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their structure and stability, are promising supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Vanadium species reducibility influences performance, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, with a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites, is crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are essential for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction yields. Post-synthetic strategies, such as creating open Lewis acid sites, improve catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, while tuning acid properties with various active sites enhances efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and efficiency. Morphological characteristics affect diffusion, crucial for catalytic performance. Support modification strategies optimize these properties, summarized in Table 3. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, avoiding CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing diffusion efficiency through nanosized and specific morphology supports improves catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation upon Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model successfully fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for the Ca-promoted catalyst, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. Higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits greater activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield and regenerability, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. The positive correlation between the amount of Lewis acid sites and propane conversion rate confirms their role as active sites. Support modification strategies, such as increasing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Strategic modification using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Metal loading inversely affects propane conversion, with lower loadings increasing metal dispersion and decreasing particle size, but also reducing durability due to increased zeolite support fraction. Support modification strategies optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5, offer a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a pivotal role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are critical for performance, as demonstrated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance the dispersion and stability of Cr species, ensuring high catalytic activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, essential for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Crystallization temperature affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Optimizing these properties through support modification strategies is essential for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by active site nature and density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions, while unimolecular pathways involve framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 show high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by framework cations, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity and stability, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene side reactions. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role in catalysis. A copper-aluminum framework material shows superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of pore size on catalytic activity, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, guided by the Sabatier principle, can minimize overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, utilizing advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies provide insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details that are challenging to obtain experimentally. Strategies like adding promoters can enhance robustness against coking, while the existence of Au atoms in alloys can increase the dissociation barrier height. The lower reactivity on PtSn alloy due to a deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt and the inhibition of propylene adsorption by PtCu catalysts enhance anti-coking ability. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is influenced by the zeolite framework, and the weak binding of intermediates on specific sites favors H2 desorption.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with PtGaCaPb/SiO2 showing exceptional stability in PDH at high temperatures, without deactivation for up to a month. This is achieved through a double modification strategy: Pb blocks Pt3 sites geometrically, while Ca enriches the electron density of Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. Tuning Pt's electronic properties enhances the catalyst's lifetime in PDH, optimizing geometric and electronic effects for an ultra-stable catalytic system.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions requiring dual activity. Optimizing catalytic performance can be achieved by strategically modifying support properties, leveraging the interplay between metal and support for reactions needing dual activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances performance through structural stability and Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, as evidenced by its use in anchoring atomically dispersed metals. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency, as demonstrated by the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst's excellent performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites in hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structure, especially surface acidity, influences propane adsorption and activation. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, enhancing ammonia desorption intensity on Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved microporous structure. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties like NaCl addition and washing significantly impact performance. Excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability, enhances Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity and stability by redistributing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal conditions, including high external acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, and component introduction order, improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Confined Pt in Sn (IV/II) lattice creates selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores boost efficiency in high-temperature propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility inhibition are crucial for enhanced catalytic efficiency. Strategies to prevent coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping in Al2O3 reduce coke. Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, aiding in coke elimination. Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials offer large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the presence of MgO, which reduces coke formation, are crucial. Using silica to dope alumina support enhances stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are essential for activity. Zeolitic supports with low acid sites lead to more active and stable catalysts. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxides resist coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, enhancing gallium hydride hydroxide species regeneration. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Acidic support materials, like chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance by enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies create stronger Lewis acidic sites, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Diffusion efficiency, influenced by support morphology, is vital for heterogeneous catalysts. Optimization strategies involve modifying support acidity, developing nanosized supports, and synthesizing specific morphologies to enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    