Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to the catalyst decreases Al2O3 acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits a deactivation function of 0.05 h^-1 and a residual activity of 0.82 at 600°C, compared to 0.22 h^-1 and 0.63 for the non-promoted sample, indicating improved resistance against deactivation by coke. This enhanced coke resistance contributes to better performance in terms of activity and selectivity at steady-state conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, enhances propane conversion, highlighting their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield and regenerability, making it a sustainable choice for industrial propane dehydrogenation. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Zeolites synthesized with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source contain silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y, with a 3:1 atomic ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity for 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH, addressing the challenge of achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts. Zeolite-supported catalysts, particularly HZSM-5, offer a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, while Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for high catalytic performance. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is essential for PDH, with HZSM-5's tunable acidity making it a good support for CrOx catalysts. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) significantly influence propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation (Quote 1). PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence (Quote 2). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape, channel, and cavity (Quote 3). Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion (Quote 4). Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic performance. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion pathways. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions (Quote 49). However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential of Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanisms and redox properties for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and larger pore sizes in zeolites that slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational approaches. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, specifically in PDH. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, enhancing stability and selectivity. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding stability and selectivity at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity modifies the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Increased acidity enhances Pt properties, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites, as shown by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, boosts performance through structural stability and Al3+ sites anchoring Pt and Ru. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH reaction efficiency. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 impacts propane adsorption and activation, crucial for PDH reaction selectivity. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's weak and strong acid sites, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acidity, and Pt-Zn interaction in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. CO adsorption FTIR studies the crucial local electronic environment of Pt for PDH. XRD patterns exhibit BEA topology with intensity drop after Zn addition. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-modification. Pt introduction doesn't affect Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and reduces acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal performance is achieved under high surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, and calcination temperatures around 400-500°C, with washing and component introduction order improving Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles confined in Sn-zeolite frameworks or lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) exhibit high performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation, attributed to strong interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores are stable at high temperatures, with efficiency linked to PtSn confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, which can be inhibited by tuning support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to prevent coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are critical for preventing coke and improving catalytic stability. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, enhancing stability. Specific supports like Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 improve stability and redox properties, respectively. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Promotion with Pt assists hydrogen desorption, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies create stronger Lewis acidic sites, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites is essential for promoting desired chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphological features, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to enhance diffusion efficiency, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers, boosting propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C, 24 h TOS, from 96.4%. The DMRA model reveals lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1 vs. 0.22 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) for Ca-promoted catalysts. Enhanced GeOx reduction in Ca-promoted catalysts increases activation energy for PDH, initially decreasing activity but improving resistance against coke, thus enhancing steady-state performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 are crucial, with γ-Al2O3 showing higher activity than θ-Al2O3 due to more Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are essential for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, with a size of 2 nm and an average atomic ratio of Pt to Y of 3, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. They show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH demonstrate superior durability compared to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion initially exceeding equilibrium values. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer influence catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are key to catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide a suitable environment for Cr species, enhancing activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. Support modification strategies, such as adjusting Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio, can optimize catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and the distribution of surface V species in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P and Mg modifications can enhance stability and activity by reducing VOx polymerization and dispersing V2O5 crystallites, respectively. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Optimizing these properties through support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Recent studies highlight the role of electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species in enhancing hydrocarbon bond polarization, crucial for CH activation. Polarization effects increase with the charge and ionic radius of alkane polarizing cations. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts show high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is critical for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity and stability, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite framework and pore size effects on catalytic activity, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging computational advancements. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency by weakening CH bond interaction and inhibiting propylene adsorption, respectively, as demonstrated in case studies that reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms challenging to explore experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, yields exceptional stability in PDH for up to 1 month at 600C, highlighting the importance of electronic properties in enhancing catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports enhances the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, while Pt presence reduces acid site strength, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid sites. This interplay is key for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Al2O3's chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3 anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, while its interaction with Ga2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation, impacting coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, revealed parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacked acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction created medium acid sites, and Zn added Lewis acid sites, enhancing ammonia desorption intensity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy showed 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirmed Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicated BEA topology preservation with intensity decline after Zn addition. Surface area analysis revealed high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; excess NaCl boosts stability, Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, and water washing, are essential for improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high performance, attributed to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts, demonstrating the impact of support modification on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, which can be inhibited by strategies including geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are critical for preventing coke and enhancing metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit unique properties, with water vapor eliminating coke deposition on CeO2. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent coke and improve stability. Mesoporous materials and 2D carbides like MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are chemically inert and stable, each affecting catalytic properties by altering metal particle characteristics and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting efficiency. Support modification, including post-synthetic methods, optimizes catalytic properties by tuning acidic sites, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Optimizing support acidity for PDH and utilizing Lewis acid sites in zeolites enhances catalytic performance. Strategies include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to improve diffusion, crucial for heterogeneous catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C, 24 h TOS, and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82), indicating better resistance to coke-induced deactivation compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63). The activation energy for the PDH reaction slightly increases (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), promoting Pt-Ge alloy formation, which improves steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, enhances propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting high yield and regenerability, is sustainable for industrial propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst slowly deactivates over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolites, with channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer capabilities, are crucial for catalytic reactions. Acidic sites, especially Brnsted acids in HZSM-5, are pivotal for alkane conversion and determine catalytic performance. Cr/HZSM-5's effectiveness is clarified through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, highlighting the importance of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites. High PDH temperatures can cause coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly impact catalytic performance. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 enhance catalytic efficiency. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for high performance. Zeolites, with high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Support selection is critical for optimizing Cr-based PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks. Bimolecular pathway active sites involve alkyl carbenium ions held to framework oxygen. Unimolecular pathway active sites are framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 has lower alkene selectivity due to unexchanged proton sites. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity than cheaper alternatives. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation. Lewis base-assisted deprotonation may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent report suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material has superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and larger zeolite pore sizes that slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interaction, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center, and PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability in PDH due to a double modification strategy: Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This synergistic approach creates an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, with negligible deactivation observed for up to 1 month at 600C. Tuning electronic properties enhances catalyst lifetime, highlighting the importance of strategic support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity modifies the electronic properties of Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Increased acidity alters Pt characteristics, affecting pyridine desorption and suppressing cracking reactions during decalin ring opening, showcasing the potential for strategic support modification to optimize catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's role as a support, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3 anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, while its interaction with Ga2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's weak and strong acid sites, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acid sites, and their interaction in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy shows small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology preservation, with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, indicative of well-preserved structures, were determined. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and acidity. Washing post-calcination redistributes water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds, enhancing activity and stability. Optimal conditions, like high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability, critical for catalytic efficiency. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks, as in Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts, exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable catalysis at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, which can be inhibited by modifying support acidity and coke mobility. Optimization strategies include geometric separation, enhancing electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, increasing oxygen mobility, and facilitating coke transfer. Support properties, such as high surface area and uniform pore size, are critical for metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K can poison strong acid sites, preventing coke deposition on Al2O3 supports. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase, while Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Pt-based bimetals can form on SiO2 supports, and CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke formation. MXenes and carbon materials, including carbon nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability, improving catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric species between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species at higher loadings. MgO addition improves vanadium catalysts' dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Using silica to dope alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is comparable to vanadium oxide, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Post-synthetic methods create stronger Lewis acidity, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with active sites optimizes chemical transformations and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model reveals lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, improving resistance against coke deactivation and boosting performance in terms of activity and selectivity. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in Ca-promoted catalysts due to improved GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreasing activity but improving steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high strong acid site levels, shows the highest yield and regenerability, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, exhibiting high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintaining high performance over 20 days. Strategic support modification, such as using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Propane conversion initially exceeds equilibrium values, and the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Zeolites, particularly HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with Brnsted acid sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion and PDH performance. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are key to high catalytic performance, as revealed through characterization, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for PDH. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and thermal stability, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance. Support selection is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with HZSM-5 zeolite's suitable acidic sites making it a good support. The high amounts of acidic sites in HZSM-5 are detrimental to PDH, highlighting the need for careful support modification.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation (Quote [1]). PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence (Quote [2]). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and active site density (Quote [3]). Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation (Quote [5]). Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation (Quote [15]). Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons (Quotes [22], [23], [24]). Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions (Quote [25]). Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts show high alkene selectivity (Quotes [36], [37]). Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects selectivity (Quote [42]). Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates (Quote [43]). Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability (Quote [48]). Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity and selectivity, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge (Quotes [49], [51]). Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions (Quote [60]). Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation (Quote [61]). Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity (Quote [71]). Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms (Quote [70]). A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quotes [76], [77], [78], [79], [80], [81]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides and hydrides, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Zeolite framework stability and pore size influence catalytic activity, with larger pores lowering activation barriers. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, minimize overall barriers. Promoters like late transition metals enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barriers. PtSn alloy's deeper d-band center lowers reactivity. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advanced computational methods. Case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering insights difficult to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties, particularly geometric and electronic effects, are crucial. The strategic modification of PtGa with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity enhances the electronic properties of supported Pt, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on supports, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, especially in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, significantly enhance dehydrogenation reactions by anchoring Pt, Ru, and stabilizing bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters. Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation, affecting coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, demonstrate structural and catalytic stability in PDH reactions. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and optimizing Al2O3 interactions, are essential for enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals weak and strong sites in H-Beta, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acid sites, and Pt-Zn interaction enhances ammonia desorption intensity. Electron microscopy shows close Pt-Zn contact in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, excess NaCl enhances catalyst stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved under conditions featuring high surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and a strategic order of component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions improve Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Pt stabilization on Al2O3 via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds and on oxide substrates with heteroatoms boosts catalytic efficiency. Confined Pt particles in Sn-modified zeolites and PtSn bimetallics in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores show high performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation, attributed to strong Pt-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms boost selectivity, whereas unsaturated ones catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, improving stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials offer large surface areas and stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to vanadium oxide, with Mo present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been informative regarding the influence of acidity on catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance by enhancing selectivity and minimizing coke formation. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Strategic support modification, including post-synthetic methods, creates open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites is essential for guiding chemical transformations towards desired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphological features, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH reactions, with Lewis acid sites in zeolites preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Morphological qualities affect diffusion efficiency, a key factor for heterogeneous catalysts. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst optimization through Ca addition enhances propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The promoted catalyst exhibits a lower deactivation rate (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63), indicating improved resistance against coke formation. This results in better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, originating from unsaturated AlIII sites, are critical for catalytic activity. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows increased efficiency in propane dehydrogenation. Specifically, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and selectivity. Notably, this catalyst's deactivation is reversible, making it regenerable and suitable for sustainable industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles on zeolites with silanol nests exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintaining activity over 20 days. Metal nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y, with a 3:1 atomic ratio. Propane conversion exceeds equilibrium values initially, and the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Catalyst loading inversely affects propane conversion, with lower loadings showing higher dispersion and conversion. Support modification strategies optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), synthesized by wet impregnation, excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, critical for high catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring activity and stability. Optimizing Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio is crucial for enhanced catalytic efficiency. Suitable acidic sites are essential for CrOx catalysts in PDH, as excessive acidic sites in HZSM-5 can be detrimental.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, affecting catalyst performance with different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization and coke formation (1). PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material (2). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density (3, 4). Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation (5). Cation exchange can create a CH polarization effect, enhancing activation (19). Active sites formed in situ involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons (22, 24). Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species (26). Controlling proton site strength, by using weaker acidity in borosilicate zeolites, can improve alkene selectivity (42-43). Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability (48). Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity and stability for alkane dehydrogenation (49). However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge (51). Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions (60). Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation (61). Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity (71). The redox property of metal centers plays a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction (81).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite framework and optimal AlAl distance for minimum overall barrier, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Zeolite pore size affects catalytic activity, with larger sizes lowering activation barriers. The Sabatier principle guides the determination of optimal distances between active sites. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally. Strategic support modification, such as the addition of promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides, can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, weakening the interaction with surface metal atoms and increasing the dissociation barrier height. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits remarkable stability in PDH at 600C, with minimal deactivation over a month. The double modification strategy, using Pb to geometrically block Pt3 sites and Ca to electronically enrich Pt1 sites, optimizes geometric and electronic effects. This synergistic approach enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity, effectively suppressing side reactions and prolonging the catalyst's lifetime in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports enhances the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is evident in the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, illustrating the interplay between support properties and metal activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3 anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, enhancing PDH reaction activity and stability through its interaction with Ga2O3. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, while its surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion, and close Pt-Zn contact makes Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, excess NaCl enhances catalyst stability and Pt dispersion, curbs acidity, and prevents sintering. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved with high external acid sites, Na/Pt ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt particle stability is enhanced by manipulating metal-support interactions, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates tightly anchor Pt particles, while lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Strong Pt-framework interactions in zeolites with confined Pt particles at Sn single-sites boost catalytic performance. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping in Al2O3 reduce coke. Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, aiding in coke elimination. Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke and enhancing stability. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including surface area-to-metal loading ratio and reducibility of vanadium species, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Monomeric vanadium species form below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. VOV and VO bonds are more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Support modification strategies, such as using mixed oxides, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affects catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ions improve Zr-Al-Beta's stability and resistance to carbon deposits, enhancing catalytic performance and selectivity at optimal concentrations. Post-synthetic modification creates stronger Lewis acidity, boosting activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to negative effects. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Diffusion efficiency in heterogeneous catalysts is determined by support properties. Optimization strategies include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and enhanced alloy formation, significantly boost dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid sites, improving propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C, 24 h TOS, and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) compared to the non-promoted (0.22 h-1, 0.63), indicating better resistance to coke. The PDH reaction's activation energy slightly increases (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy, which initially reduces activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits superior activity in propane dehydrogenation. Specifically, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and demonstrates regenerability, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity over 20 days. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions, showing high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolites provide crucial channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for high catalytic performance, as elucidated by characterization and PDH tests. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact catalytic efficiency. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring activity and stability. Support selection is critical for Cr-based PDH catalysts, with zeolites' tunable acidity making them ideal. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for CrOx catalysts in PDH, where Brnsted acid sites play a pivotal role in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization and aromatization. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Modifying framework atoms to create CH polarization on zeolites can enhance catalysis. Active sites involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 yield high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite structure and pore size effects on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interaction, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center, and PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are pivotal. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites optimizes these properties. This strategy creates an ultra-stable catalytic system, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding stability at 600C, with no deactivation observed for up to 1 month. The electron-enriched Pt1 site suppresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing their catalytic qualities. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid sites. This interplay optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru, improving selectivity. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, enhancing PDH performance at high space velocities. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, while surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer enhanced PDH catalysis, with improved structural and catalytic stability. These support modification strategies optimize catalytic properties for better efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta significantly enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating a strong interaction between Pt and Zn species. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied using CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Surface area and micropore volume analyses demonstrate well-preserved structures post-modification. Notably, Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, NaCl excess boosts catalyst stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and acidity. Washing post-calcination enhances activity and stability by redispersing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized performance requires high external acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions improve Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling support acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and prevent coke. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties beneficial for dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and hinder coke formation. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability. Each support type uniquely influences catalytic properties, affecting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition enhances vanadium catalyst selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, with Mo present as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and various methods have been explored to produce chromia-alumina catalysts. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Tuning acidity and textural properties, influenced by alkali-metal ions, achieves optimal efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting desired chemical transformations and improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as exemplified in cinnamaldehyde conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion. Proper acidity is pivotal for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Optimizing catalytic performance involves modifying support properties to enhance diffusion, such as using nanosized supports and specific morphologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The addition of Ca reduces acid centers and increases alloy formation, improving resistance against deactivation by coke. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates (0.05 h^-1 vs. 0.22 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) at 600°C compared to non-promoted samples. Activation energy for the PDH reaction slightly increases for Ca-promoted catalysts due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy. This initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, demonstrates enhanced activity in propane dehydrogenation, where conversion rates correlate with the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Low catalyst loading correlates with higher propane conversion due to increased metal dispersion. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition, indicating deactivation over time. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 is challenging. Zeolites, especially HZSM-5, offer a unique environment for catalysis, with Brnsted acid sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance, as demonstrated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. The Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, while the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly affect the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, where Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are critical for propane activation and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion pathways. Oxidative addition requires a redox cycle at the metal center, whereas Lewis base-assisted deprotonation does not. Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts with unexchanged proton sites show lower alkene selectivity. Controlling proton site strength, such as using borosilicate zeolites, can enhance alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer. The electronic promotion effect of Sn aligns with oxidative addition CH activation, while Lewis base-assisted deprotonation explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, with potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, highlighting the role of redox properties in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including zeolite framework structure (Quote [7]) and pore size (Quote [8]), significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers (Quote [9]), and theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes (Quote [19]). Advances in computational methods enable deeper insights into complex catalytic systems, supporting the optimization of catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. The double modification of PtGa with Pb for geometric blocking and Ca for electronic enrichment creates an ultra-stable catalytic system. This design synergizes promotion effects, as seen in PtGaCaPb/SiO2, which exhibits exceptional stability at high temperatures for up to 1 month with minimal deactivation, demonstrating the effectiveness of strategic support modification in enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity enhances Pt properties, while Pt reduces acid site strength, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification, evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppressed cracking reactions, is crucial for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors metal sites and its structure affects adsorption and activation. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction boosts PDH reaction activity, while γ-Al2O3 nanosheets disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, enhancing long-term PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites in Al2O3 impacts propane adsorption and coke deposition. Support modification strategies, such as the synthesis of CoAl2O3HT catalysts, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity in Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity drop after Zn addition. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, excess NaCl enhances catalyst stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, featuring high surface acid site concentration and specific Na/Pt ratios, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts, demonstrating the effectiveness of strategic support modification.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, impacting propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are critical; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetal formation, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, utilizing CeO2's redox properties to eliminate coke. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke deposits. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and decreasing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal efficiency is linked to specific alkali-metal ion types and concentrations, affecting acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity. Morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    