Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation via Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for the Ca-promoted catalyst, indicating enhanced coke resistance. The activation energy increase for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx species reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. More Lewis acid sites in γ-Al2O3 than θ-Al2O3 enhance propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high yield and regenerability, is optimal for industrial propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies can increase active sites and improve catalyst stability for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopies, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer influence catalytic reactions. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, elucidated by physicochemical analysis, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, enhance catalytic performance. CrOx catalysts' structure is detected by N2 sorption, and XRD confirms Cr loading's minimal impact on HZSM-5's crystalline structure. NH3-TPD measures acidity properties, and XPS assesses metal-support interactions. High temperatures cause coke formation, leading to deactivation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for CrOx catalysts. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are pivotal for propane adsorption and activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the density of active sites. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation through two pathways. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites improving selectivity over aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while metal promotion improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes the impact of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimize overall barriers, following the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, providing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent enriching Pt1 sites, suppresses side reactions and enhances stability. This strategy results in a catalyst with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, demonstrating the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic promotion for ultra-stable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt are influenced by the acidity of the support, with increased acidity altering Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of the support's acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This interplay is observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the importance of support modification strategies for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites on its (100) facets. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Surface area and micropore volume analyses show well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and curbs zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios of 4070, 400-500°C calcination, water washing, and component introduction order, significantly improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Sn-zeolite framework confinement and mesopore location of PtSn particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite significantly improve catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlling acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties beneficial for dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and chemical stability. Each support type uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with MgO addition improving selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to the formation of acid sites. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, with Mo present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to the formation of acid sites. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Doping with alkali metals can stabilize the structure of the support, reduce surface acidity, and increase the number of active sites. Using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of monomeric, polymeric, or crystalline vanadium species on the catalyst. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are important for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites are detrimental to catalyst performance. Silica doping of alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. Addition of MgO can improve dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction of molybdenum oxide catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of different vanadium species, which affects the catalytic activity. The presence of hydroxyl groups on the support surface is crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while large V2O5 crystallites are inactive in dehydrogenation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, and the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and coke deposition. The calcination of the catalyst can remove coke but may further deactivate the catalyst due to the formation of larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species under certain conditions. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Using silica to dope the alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. The addition of MgO can improve the performance of supported vanadium catalysts by reducing coke formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The nature of the support is crucial as it not only determines the mechanical properties of the catalyst but also affects the interaction between the carrier and the active phase, which can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. For instance, alumina is the most common support, and the method of producing chromia-alumina catalysts can vary, affecting the catalyst's performance. The choice of support can also influence the catalytic activity, with different supports leading to varying orders of activity based on conversion and yield. Zirconia, as an alternative support, has been investigated for its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites, and mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for their catalytic properties in dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as seen in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials, can also influence catalytic behavior, with strong acid sites affecting cracking reactions and medium strength acid sites impacting dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize the properties of catalysts for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions can effectively poison undesirable acid sites, improving selectivity. Using zirconia as a support can prevent the formation of mixed oxides and offer higher thermal stability and surface area. Silica, with its high surface area, can stabilize Cr6+ sites, while mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors can provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability against sintering. Understanding the role of acidity in catalytic behavior can also guide the modification of supports to favor dehydrogenation reactions over cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance by improving resistance to deactivation and coking. This treatment correlates with acidity and textural properties, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways. An example is the preparation of Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, showing superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites is crucial for targeted reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies optimize these properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites prefer Lewis acid sites for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (Quote 2). The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance to deactivation by coke (Quotes 4 & 5). The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher for the Ca-promoted catalyst due to enhanced GeOx reduction, leading to a Pt-Ge alloy formation and decreased initial activity (Quote 6). However, this results in better performance in terms of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions (Quote 7). Support modification strategies, such as Ca addition, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably Lewis acid sites from Al2O3's unsaturated AlIII sites, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 correlates positively with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. Support modification strategies can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity by increasing active sites and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. TGA analysis reveals 37 wt% coke deposition on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Acidic sites, particularly Brnsted acids in HZSM-5, are crucial for catalytic performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are responsible for high catalytic efficiency. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an optimal environment for Cr dispersion, ensuring stability and activity. Support selection is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with zeolites offering high surface area, tunable acidity, and thermal stability. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for its role as a support in CrOx catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Crystallization temperature affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing VOx catalysts. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalysis. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Oxidative addition requires a redox cycle at the metal center. Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 with unexchanged proton sites shows lower alkene selectivity. Controlling proton site strength, such as using borosilicate zeolites, can improve selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and stability for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhancing catalytic activity. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling deeper insights into complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and Au atoms can enhance catalyst robustness and shift the d band of alloys, affecting dehydrogenation barriers.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are critical, especially in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites and allows Ga3+ cations to disperse in γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity was assessed by NH3-TPD, showing H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite surface areas and micropore volumes were high, indicating preserved microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability in propane dehydrogenation, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. High external acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, and support modifications like acidity control and use of materials such as Al2O3 and CeO2. Supports with high surface area and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion, while alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites, preventing coke. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation help eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and 2D carbides like MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are stable and inert supports. Each support's characteristics affect catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Support type and preparation conditions affect molybdenum oxide species formation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with specific alkali-metal ion types and concentrations, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological features, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies aim to optimize these properties, focusing on enhancing diffusion efficiency through nanosized and specific morphology supports.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts. This resistance against coke deactivation leads to better steady-state performance. The activation energy for PDH is slightly higher in Ca-promoted catalysts due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreasing activity but improving overall efficiency and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic properties for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 correlates positively with propane conversion rates, indicating their role as active sites. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis method using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. The catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. TGA analysis reveals 37 wt% coke deposition on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br. Catalyst loading inversely affects propane conversion, with lower loadings showing higher dispersion and smaller particle size. Support modification strategies, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. CrOx catalysts' structural properties are detected by N2 sorption, and XRD patterns show minimal impact of Cr loading on HZSM-5's crystallite structure. Acidity properties are measured by NH3-TPD, and metal-support interactions by XPS. High reaction temperatures cause coke formation, leading to deactivation. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, while HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal supports for PDH catalysts. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are critical for propane activation and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategies like using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, and incorporating promoting elements for beneficial geometric and electronic effects, can enhance catalyst performance. However, environmental and safety concerns exist with certain catalysts due to their toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the nature of active sites. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding in CH activation. Polarization increases with the charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion interactions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing exchangeable protons. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity and stability, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers plays a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, with larger pores lowering activation barriers, are crucial in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the distance between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, to a minimum overall barrier based on the Sabatier principle enhances catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging computational advancements to explore complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally, highlighting the role of additional promoters in increasing robustness against coking and the impact of Au atoms on the d band of alloys, affecting the dissociation barrier height.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent enriching Pt1 sites, optimizes the geometric and electronic effects. This strategy, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, yields an ultra-stable catalytic system with negligible deactivation over 1 month at 600C, highlighting the role of electronic properties in enhancing catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the electronic properties of Pt catalysts are influenced by the acidity of the support, with increased acidity altering Pt properties more significantly. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of the support's acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption from acid sites and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the interplay between metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's dual acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acidity post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acidity. Pt-Zn interaction, evidenced by enhanced NH3 desorption, is pivotal. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as sub-100nm aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology preservation. High surface areas and micropore volumes, measured by argon adsorption, suggest intact microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH stems from species proximity and electronic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties significantly impact performance. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability through redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and specific component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores act as stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports disperse metal particles. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and prevent coke. Pt interactions with supports like SiO2 and CeO2 influence catalyst stability and coke formation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, such as nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable supports. Each support affects catalytic selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species influences performance. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, with high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites, is active in dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide resists coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. The nature of the support is crucial for mechanical properties and interaction with the active phase, impacting activity and selectivity. Alumina is the most common support, with various methods to produce chromia-alumina catalysts. Zirconia, as an alternative, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, affects catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm changes in acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved by tuning acidity and textural properties, influenced by the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting desired reactions while minimizing undesired pathways like dehydration and isomerization. Support modification strategies, such as the preparation of Zr-Al-Beta zeolites, offer superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance to coke, which improves performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Strategies like Ca addition can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably acid strength and stability, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is critical for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, as the conversion rate is directly proportional to the Lewis acid site count. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The presence of silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy, facilitates the formation of intermetallic Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion, ensuring stability. Support modification strategies, focusing on Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio, optimize catalytic efficiency. Zeolites, with tunable acidity and thermal stability, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials are influenced by the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, affecting reaction pathways. Active site nature and density influence framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic activity. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions held to framework oxygen ions, while unimolecular pathways involve charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion interactions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material offers better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, with potential for dehydrogenation at 350 C, highlighting the role of redox properties in achieving this.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability and zeolite pore size, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex systems. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides can increase robustness against coking. The existence of Au atoms in alloys weakens the interaction with surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. These insights, revealed through computational studies and case analyses, provide a deeper understanding of dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, exhibiting outstanding stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing its catalytic role. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This interplay between metal and support properties offers a strategy for optimizing catalytic performance in reactions involving dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its stability and structure. Its Al3+ sites anchor Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ for improved PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis, benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. Surface area analysis shows high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties significantly impact performance. Excess NaCl boosts stability, Pt dispersion, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination enhances activity and stability through redispersion of chlorinated Pt compounds. High surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, as seen with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchoring atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are also stabilized on oxide substrate heteroatoms and in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II), creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks, Pt particles exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable high-temperature propane dehydrogenation catalysts, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Pt interactions with supports like SiO2 and CeO2 influence alloy formation and redox properties, affecting coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, impacting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy evidence the modification on Lewis and Brnsted acid sites. Optimal results (97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol) were achieved with 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta, showing high tolerance to furfural concentration. The type of alkali-metal ions and alkaline solution concentration correlate with acidity and textual properties, influencing catalytic performance. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether, showcasing superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites is essential for promoting chemical transformations and avoiding undesired reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is critical for PDH, avoiding CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation. Zeolites favor Lewis acid sites for propane dehydrogenation over Brnsted acid sites. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Ca-promotion reduces Al2O3 acid centers and enhances alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model reveals lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating improved coke resistance. Higher activation energy in Ca-promoted catalysts, due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high strong acid site levels, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing Lewis acid site density, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and a sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopies. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites, these catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity over 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are key for catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic efficiency. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for high performance. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for CrOx catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification enhances catalyst stability by reducing VOx polymerization. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. However, environmental and safety concerns exist with certain catalysts due to their toxicity. Ga catalysts, while less active, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect catalyst performance. The activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, and different supports can impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity. Weaker proton sites in borosilicate zeolites improve selectivity over aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers, as seen in copper-aluminum framework materials, may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite structure and pore size effects on catalytic activity, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods for complex catalytic systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency by weakening CH bond interactions and inhibiting secondary cracking reactions, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. A promising design concept involves double decorating PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric modification, blocking Pt3 sites, and Ca as an electron-donating agent, enriching Pt1 sites to suppress side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, exhibiting outstanding stability in PDH at 600C for up to 1 month without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This interplay suggests strategic support modification could optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its structural advantages and stability. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a hydrothermal method, benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta's dual acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acidity post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acidity. Pt-Zn interaction, evidenced by enhanced ammonia desorption, boosts acidity. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as sub-100nm aggregates with closely contacted Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity drop after Zn addition. High surface areas and micropore volumes, preserved post-dealumination and metal incorporation, suggest robust microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta effective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical qualities and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion, curbs sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, enhancing electron density to weaken Pt bonds, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are critical; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size improve metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms enhance metal-support interaction. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetal formation. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their properties, are also effective supports. Each support's characteristics distinctly affects catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation are crucial. Using silica to dope alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ions enhance selectivity and stability, as evidenced by the improved performance of Zr-Al-Beta in furfural reduction. Support modification, like the post-synthetic method for Zr-Al-Beta preparation, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity by tuning acidic sites, leading to superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites is essential for promoting desired chemical transformations and avoiding undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity. Morphological features affect diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance involve modifying supports to enhance diffusion, such as using nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating better coke resistance. Despite slightly higher activation energy, this leads to improved steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed on zeolites with silanol nests, exhibit high catalytic durability and selectivity in propane dehydrogenation (Quote 3). These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt (Quote 4). PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability (Quote 5). PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintains activity for 20 days, whereas PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day (Quote 6). The intermetallic compound formation requires yttrium migration through silanol nests (Quote 7). Coke deposition on spent catalysts is 37 wt% (Quote 14). There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading, with lower loadings showing higher dispersion and conversion (Quote 16). Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's acidic sites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts enhance catalytic efficiency, as confirmed by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an optimal environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical, with zeolites offering high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity. HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites is an ideal support for CrOx catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and the distribution of surface V species in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors on the support. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Catalyst preparation should avoid cations that catalyze side reactions. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity than cheaper alternatives. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, play a crucial role in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms can shift the d band of alloys, weakening CH bond interaction and increasing dissociation barrier height. The ultimate goal is to optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity through strategic support modification.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are critical in PDH, with the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics using Pb and Ca as a promising design. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This strategy yields a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C, highlighting the importance of tuning electronic properties for enhanced catalytic lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This interplay suggests strategic support modification can optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites for anchoring Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, improving PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high performance in PDH reactions. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Al2O3's surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, reveals that parent H-Beta contains both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn introduces Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicative of well-preserved microporous structures, were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including NaCl addition, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses zeolite acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order improves Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt particles, boosting selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite ensure stability at high temperatures, with high efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation, while CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions and eliminating coke with water vapor. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ions, as demonstrated by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy, enhance the stability and carbon deposit tolerance of Zr-Al-Beta, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation in furfural and isopropanol reactions. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting catalytic performance. Support modification, such as post-synthetic methods, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity by creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, as shown in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether, achieving superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity. Morphological characteristics affect diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. For zeolites, Lewis acid sites favor propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites promote cleavage. Support modification strategies, such as nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation kinetics. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, enhances propane conversion, indicating these sites' importance. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high strong acid site levels, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and a sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y, with a 3:1 atomic ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with Brnsted acid sites playing a crucial role in propane adsorption and activation. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and thermal stability, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are essential for optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification can decrease VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods, and developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, including the use of supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites, formed in situ, consist of alkyl carbenium ions held to the zeolite framework. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion pathways. Redox cycles are required for CH activation via oxidative addition but not for Lewis base-assisted deprotonation. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism is relevant for CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite structure and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier enhances catalytic efficiency, adhering to the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level experimentally. The existence of Au atoms shifts the d band of alloys, weakening CH bond interaction and increasing the dissociation barrier height, while the deeper d-band center in PtSn alloy compared to pure Pt reduces reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electron enrichment of Pt1 sites, suppresses side reactions and enhances stability. This double modification creates an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, which exhibits outstanding stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This reciprocal relationship between metal and support properties is crucial for optimizing catalytic performance in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites due to its unsaturated Al3+ sites. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH activity and stability by dispersing Ga3+ cations. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, critical for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. High surface areas and micropore volumes, measured by argon adsorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability in propane dehydrogenation, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt. Optimized conditions, such as high surface acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, and component introduction order, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt atom coordination saturation affects propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, influence catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetal formation. Strong CeO2-metal interactions trap Pt ions, and water vapor can eliminate coke deposition due to CeO2's redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their structures and properties, are also used as supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with MgO addition improving selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide resists coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. The choice of support, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, affects catalytic activity and selectivity. Zirconia offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, affects catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance by improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is crucial for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity leading to negative impacts. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies for enhancing catalytic efficiency include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces to improve diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    