Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rates, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high strong acid site levels, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy, playing a key role. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed within these nests, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. After 20 days, PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading, with increased metal dispersion at low loadings. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for high catalytic efficiency. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring activity and stability. Support selection is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with HZSM-5 zeolite's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation selection should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic performance. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions held to zeolite framework oxygen, while unimolecular pathways involve charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role in catalysis. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures through the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal distance between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Advancements in computational studies have enabled deeper insights into complex catalytic systems, revealing dehydrogenation mechanisms that are challenging to explore experimentally. The existence of Au atoms shifts the d band of alloys, weakening the interaction with surface metal atoms and increasing the dissociation barrier height. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the zeolite framework structure, and larger pore sizes in zeolites lower activation barriers for reactions. The ultimate goal is to identify optimal catalysts for specific chemical processes through theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. A promising design concept involves the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, which synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density of Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, with no deactivation observed for up to 1 month at 600C, showcasing the potential for ultra-stable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals, and the presence of metals affects the acidic properties of supports. Specifically, the electronic properties of Pt are altered by the acidity of the support, with increased acidity leading to greater property changes. Conversely, platinum reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the interdependence of metal and acid active sites in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its stability and interaction with metals like Pt, Ru, and PtSn. The specific interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 boosts PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH reaction efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a hydrothermal method, offer enhanced structural and catalytic stability. The behavior of C3H6 desorption in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions highlights the importance of support modification for optimized catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks these after dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post dealumination and metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, critical for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and reduces zeolite acidity. Washing after calcination enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved through high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and the order of component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Al2O3's pentacoordinate Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Sn-zeolite framework confinement boosts catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt particle interaction. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency linked to mesopore confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties for coke elimination. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation, whereas CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions. Mesoporous materials and MXenes disperse active phases, reducing coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates species formation, with Wu et al. noting monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Using silica to dope alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity, as Sokolov et al. found. Support modification, such as MgO addition or silica doping, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites are detrimental. The nature of the support governs mechanical properties and profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Alumina is the most common support, with various methods explored for chromia-alumina catalyst production. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affects catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ions modify Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, enhancing recalcitrance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes chemical transformations and avoids undesired reactions, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and efficiency. Morphological characteristics influence diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH reactions, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions. Diffusion efficiency in heterogeneous catalysts is determined by support morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties. Strategies for support modification aim to enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance to coke. This results in higher activation energy for the PDH reaction, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerable γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high yield and reversible deactivation, is sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing Lewis acid sites and crystalline structure, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica in synthesis creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. Homogeneously distributed across the support, they contain both Pt and Y, with an average atomic ratio of 3. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. An activation period is observed before full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, unlike PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl, which deactivates within 1 day. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect the catalytic efficiency of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and high surface area, serve as effective supports for CrOx catalysts in PDH, where suitable acidic sites are essential. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for optimizing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increasing active V3+ species and improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for future dehydrogenation processes. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect performance. Catalyst activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and performance is influenced by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects enhance with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts show high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. Recent findings suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite structure and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, with larger pores lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, enabled by advancements in computational approaches. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites, creates an ultra-stable system. This design concept synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, leading to outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at high temperatures, with minimal deactivation observed over a month.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the electronic properties of Pt are significantly influenced by the acidity of the support, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of the support's acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This interplay is observed through changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the importance of support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, enhancing dispersion. Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction boosts Ga3+ dispersion, improving PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including NaCl excess and washing, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and proper calcination temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, affect catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and isomerization. High surface area supports improve metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and avoid coke. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 enhance stability and redox properties, respectively. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, forming bimetals, while CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Supports alter selectivity and stability by influencing metal particles and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of molybdenum oxide catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. This treatment correlates with acidity and textural properties, achieving optimal results in furfural conversion. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity. Morphological features affect diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is vital for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to improve diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model reveals lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The activation energy for PDH reactions is slightly higher in Ca-promoted catalysts due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The Lewis acid sites correlate positively with propane conversion rates, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed with silanol nests in zeolites synthesized using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, exhibit high catalytic durability and selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition, and the conversion decreases with increased metal loading. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with Brnsted acid sites playing a key role in propane adsorption and activation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance, with high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhancing dispersion and stabilization of Cr species. The selection of supports is crucial for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with zeolites offering high surface area, good thermal stability, and tunable acidity. High amounts of acidic sites in HZSM-5 are detrimental to PDH, but suitable acidic sites make it a good support for CrOx catalysts. The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts is critical for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and the distribution of surface V species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Active sites on zeolites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength, by using weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites, can enhance alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity for alkane reactions but face deactivation due to coke formation. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and the role of redox properties in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. A promising design concept involves the double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in ultra-stable catalysts with outstanding performance in PDH, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, which exhibited no deactivation for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and the presence of metals affects the acidity of supports. Increased support acidity enhances Pt properties, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This interaction is observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions, indicating the importance of support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites for anchoring Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving superior PDH performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structural diversity, like surface acidity, influences propane adsorption and coke deposition in PDH reactions. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, demonstrate high PDH catalytic stability. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modifications, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "NH3-TPD revealed that H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy showed 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy monitored silanol group evolution, confirming Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra revealed Pt's local electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns showed BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Argon adsorption/desorption isotherms indicated high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structures. Pt introduction didn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts by promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and reducing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and the order of component introduction, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Acidic supports and coke mobility can be tuned to prevent coke formation. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent undesirable reactions. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, reducing coke on Al2O3. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 and Pt ions on CeO2 show enhanced stability and coke resistance. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface area and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica-doped alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, dependent on loading, support, and preparation, show comparable chemistry to vanadium oxide. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, with high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites, is active in dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. This treatment affects both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, with optimal results achieved at specific ion types and concentrations. Post-synthetic strategies, like forming open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Such modifications enable superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, crucial for chemical transformations and avoiding undesired reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C, 24 h TOS). The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating better coke resistance. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation, where the amount of Lewis acid sites is positively linked to propane conversion rate. The regenerability of γ-Al2O3-200, allowing restoration after deactivation, makes it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as increasing Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance, as elucidated by characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability. The selection of supports is critical for Cr-based PDH catalysts. HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites is optimal for CrOx catalysts. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalysts' propane conversion, propene selectivity, and yield. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing with acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and channel. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity. Pt-based catalysts offer high activity and stability for alkane reactions, but deactivation from coke formation remains a challenge. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites improves alkene selectivity and stability. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. The role of potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Future research should focus on non-oxidative dehydrogenation using redox properties of metal centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite structure and pore size effects on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency and anti-coking ability, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation over a month at 600C. This is achieved through geometric modification with Pb, blocking Pt3 sites, and electronic enrichment by Ca, creating an electron-dense Pt1 site that suppresses side reactions. This double modification strategy optimizes the geometric and electronic effects, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, the presence of Pt alters the acidity of the support, reducing acid site strength. This interaction, observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening, suggests that strategic support modification can optimize metal-acid site synergy, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites and stabilizes bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, enhancing PDH reaction performance. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting activity and stability. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites in Al2O3 affects propane adsorption and activation, influencing coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal methods, offer structural and catalytic stability, benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP catalysts. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta with enhanced ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably NaCl's role in enhancing stability and Pt dispersion, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. NaCl prevents sintering, suppresses acidity, and improves Pt dispersion. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing, contribute to better Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites form stabilizing bonds with atomically dispersed Pt, anchoring particles. Pt is also stabilized on oxide substrate heteroatoms and in lattice-confined Sn, creating selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn particles in zeolite mesopores improve catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures, attributed to strong Pt-particle interactions with the zeolite framework.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to coke. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling acidity prevents coke and isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and SiO2 supports have distinct effects on Pt-based catalysts. CeO2 supports, with redox properties, help eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable supports. Each support impacts selectivity and stability differently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Vanadium species reducibility influences performance, while MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, influenced by loading, support, and preparation, can be optimized for activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic supports with low medium and strong acid sites lead to more active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalysts. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Acidic support materials can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion promotion on Zr-Al-Beta enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration influence catalytic efficiency, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, can optimize these properties, creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, leading to superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes chemical transformations and avoids undesired reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological features, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength affects selectivity, while morphology impacts diffusion efficiency. Support modification, such as adjusting acidity for optimal CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, enhances catalytic performance. For zeolites, Lewis acid sites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies like developing nanosized supports improve diffusion efficiency, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the PDH reaction in the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but results in better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, with conversion rates positively linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintains activity for 20 days, whereas PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports offer channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer, crucial for catalytic reactions. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are pivotal for alkane conversion and PDH performance. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are key, as evidenced by physicochemical analysis, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Support modifications, such as varying crystallization temperatures, can increase Lewis acid sites and affect the distribution of surface V species, impacting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. P and Mg modifications can decrease VOx polymerization, enhance stability, and improve anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The activity of vanadium-based catalysts is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and different supports can affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation (Quote 1). PtSn interactions are influenced by the impregnation sequence on the support material (Quote 2). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, affecting the nature and density of active sites (Quotes 3-4). Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding in CH activation (Quote 5). Polarizing effects enhance CH activation and increase with charge magnitude and ionic radius (Quote 16). Modifying framework atoms can create a CH polarization effect (Quote 20). Active sites, such as alkoxide intermediates and charge balancing protons, are crucial for CH activation (Quotes 27, 34). Proton site control can enhance alkene selectivity (Quote 36). Weaker proton sites in borosilicate zeolites improve selectivity compared to aluminosilicate (Quote 43). Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions but face deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 52). Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 exhibits high stability and dispersion, minimizing side reactions (Quote 54). Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions (Quote 56). Potassium in commercial catalysts reduces protonic site influence on selectivity (Quote 59). Cu-Al framework materials show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote 76). Redox properties of metal centers may play a role in achieving dehydrogenation at 350 C (Quote 81).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger zeolite pore sizes slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites, creates an ultra-stable system. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic promotion, enhancing catalytic stability and selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity influences the electronic properties of supported metals, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. The presence of metals, like platinum, affects the acidity of supports, reducing acid site strength. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, suggesting strategies to optimize catalytic performance through support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyzes non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structure, particularly surface acidity, influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer improved PDH catalysis. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion, curbs sintering, and tames zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, and component introduction order improves Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores act as stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K can poison strong acid sites, reducing coke on Al2O3. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases, while Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetals formation, whereas strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, with water vapor aiding coke elimination due to CeO2's redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports hinder large hydrocarbon formation, preventing coke and improving stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials, including carbon nanotubes and graphene, are novel supports with large surface areas and stability in various media. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability by altering metal particle characteristics and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. Reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize catalyst properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies, like creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promote chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways, demonstrating superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits a deactivation function of 0.05 h^-1 and residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C, outperforming the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63). Higher activation energy for the PDH reaction in the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances resistance against coke, improving steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. An activation period is observed before full conversion is reached. Propane conversion exceeds equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high catalytic performance. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Selecting appropriate supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with zeolites offering high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity. Only HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites serves as an effective support for CrOx in PDH. Brnsted acid sites significantly influence the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods, and the development of active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species, although environmental and safety concerns exist with certain catalysts due to toxicity. Ga catalysts, while less active, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect performance, with activity dependent on the VOsupport bond strength.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions held to zeolite oxygen, while unimolecular pathways involve framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides and hydrides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers [7][8]. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers [9]. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes [19], and advancements in computational approaches enable exploration of complex catalytic systems [20].", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with geometric and electronic effects being crucial. A promising design concept involves double-modifying PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for up to 1 month at 600C, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, with Pt's properties influenced by the acidity of its support, enhancing with increased acidity. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of support acid sites, affecting pyridine desorption and suppressing cracking reactions in decalin ring opening, potentially influencing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Al2O3's structural advantages and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 enhances PDH activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, boosting performance in PDH reactions. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking structural and catalytic stabilities. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta with enhanced ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy reveals small aggregates of 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy indicates Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns confirm BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. Surface area and micropore volume analysis show well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The robust PDH catalyst, Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, benefits from close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, and curbs zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and water washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for catalytic efficiency in dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles confined in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) or at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks, as in Pt-Sn catalysts, show high selectivity and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores create stable catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to the mesopore confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility are crucial for inhibiting coke. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction forms Pt-based bimetals. CeO2's redox properties eliminate coke under propane dehydrogenation. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials offer large surface areas and stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm changes in acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions and avoids undesired pathways like dehydration and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphological qualities affect diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity causing negative effects. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better coke resistance. The PDH reaction's activation energy increases slightly in the promoted catalyst, enhancing Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is crucial for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, as the conversion rate is directly linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed on the support, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with Brnsted acid sites playing a crucial role in propane adsorption and activation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports is critical for optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, and different supports affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and radius, and should not catalyze alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic activity. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation. Proton site strength can be controlled to improve alkene selectivity, with weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites yielding higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions due to their activity, stability, and selectivity, but deactivation by coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite framework and optimal AlAl distance for minimum barrier height, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Zeolite pore size affects catalytic activity, with larger sizes lowering activation barriers. The Sabatier principle guides the determination of optimal distances between active sites. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering molecular-level understanding not easily attainable experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, specifically in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The strategic decoration of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density of Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy significantly enhances catalytic stability and selectivity in PDH, as evidenced by outstanding stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals, such as Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances performance through its stability and structural advantages. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ for improved PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, showed that H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy revealed 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirmed Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns showed BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes were consistent across samples, indicating preserved microporous structure. Pt introduction did not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical qualities and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite catalyst stability for propane dehydrogenation, promoting Pt dispersion and preventing sintering during calcination, while also suppressing zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved by controlling external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios, calcination temperatures, and the order of component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's pentacoordinate Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt through Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks shows high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores are stable at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron enrichment, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlling acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties, respectively. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes disperse active phases, reducing coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is significantly influenced by physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of vanadium species, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric species between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species, depending on their molecular structure, affects catalytic performance. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The structure of the support, such as mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide, increases resistance to coking. K addition reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of the support governs mechanical properties and profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Alumina is the most common support, with various methods explored for chromia-alumina catalyst production. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as seen in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials, significantly affects catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance by improving resistance to deactivation and coking, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting desired reactions while minimizing undesired pathways like dehydration and isomerization. This modification leads to superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological characteristics, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity by improving diffusion efficiency through nanosized and specific morphology supports.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    