Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits higher activation energy, attributed to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves resistance against deactivation by coke, leading to better steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The conversion rate of propane is directly linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Unlike monometallic Pt, Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of about 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y. Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with rapid deactivation in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl. Strategic support modification, like using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer enhance catalytic reactions. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts, characterized by physicochemical methods, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, are key for high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite high cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and the importance of metal center redox properties for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies provide insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are critical, especially in PDH. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability, with no deactivation for up to 1 month at 600C. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. Tuning Pt's electronic properties enhances PDH catalyst lifetime. The double modification strategy synergizes geometric and electronic effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity influences the electronic properties of supported metals, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Specifically, the electronic properties of platinum are affected by the acidity of the support, with alterations increasing as support acidity rises. Conversely, the presence of platinum reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts. This interaction between metal and acid active sites is crucial for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and the presence of Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, critical for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts and enhances Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid site concentrations and specific calcination temperatures, along with washing and the order of component introduction, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks boosts catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores stabilize the catalyst at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordination saturation of Pt atoms affects propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, influence catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports have high alloying degrees. CeO2 supports trap Pt ions and, with water vapor, eliminate coke deposition due to redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their structures and properties, are also used as supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with MgO addition improving selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, with species formation dependent on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. The choice of support, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, influences the dispersion and stability of the active phase, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance and selectivity, evidenced by improved resistance to deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and alkaline solution concentration correlate with acidity and textural properties, achieving optimal results in furfural conversion. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways, such as dehydration and polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological features, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength influences selectivity and can impact PDH reactions positively or negatively, depending on the level of acidity. Morphological qualities determine diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties for better catalytic performance. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation, whereas Brnsted acid sites promote cleavage reactions. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating enhanced coke resistance. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx species reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y. Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, while HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for PDH. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are critical for propane activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Strategic cation selection avoids catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites form in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion interactions. Oxidative addition and Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanisms describe CH activation on different sites. Proton site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows improved performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimize overall barriers, as per the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details otherwise unattainable.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, especially in PDH. The double modification of PtGa with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable system for PDH, is a promising design. This strategy, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, achieves outstanding stability at 600C for up to 1 month, with minimal deactivation, highlighting the importance of tuning electronic properties for enhanced catalytic lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, affecting the acidic properties of supports. This interplay impacts reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites, as demonstrated by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites and stabilizes bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, enhancing PDH reaction performance. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting activity and stability. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta a robust PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl enhances stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, promoting Pt dispersion and suppressing acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability through redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles confined in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) or zeolite frameworks, like Sn-zeolite, exhibit high catalytic performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation due to strong interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while CeO2's redox properties eliminate coke under propane dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic selectivity and stability differently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, with species formation dependent on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, correlating with acidity and textual properties. Post-synthetic strategies, like forming open Lewis acid sites, optimize catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, promoting desired reactions while minimizing undesired pathways such as dehydration and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength influences selectivity, with proper acidity essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Morphology impacts diffusion efficiency, crucial for heterogeneous catalysts. Optimization strategies, summarized in Table 3, include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies to enhance diffusion. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating enhanced coke resistance. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is crucial for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, as evidenced by the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst's high yield. The regenerability of this catalyst, allowing recovery after deactivation, is vital for industrial applications. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites and controlling crystalline structure, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopies. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. TGA analysis of spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br reveals 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolites provide a unique environment for catalysis, with acidity playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are crucial for performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and strategic cation choice avoids unwanted catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic performance. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons, with electrophilic CH activation through proton and carbenium ion interactions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts show high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while metal promotion improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material offers better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, with potential for lower temperature operation, indicating a future research direction in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' and hydrides' stability influenced by zeolite framework, and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods for complex catalytic systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms and PtSn alloy modify d bands and dehydrogenation barriers, respectively, impacting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "The influence of support acidity on the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, and the reciprocal effect of metals on support acidity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Studies show that the electronic properties of Pt are significantly influenced by the acidity of the support, with alterations increasing as the acidity of the support rises. Conversely, the presence of platinum reduces the strength of the acid sites on the support, affecting the desorption of pyridine and suppressing cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts. These interactions between metal and acid sites can potentially enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity in reactions requiring both types of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, features Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, enhancing performance. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer structural and catalytic stability for PDH reactions. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's electronic environment significance for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, measured by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts and promotes Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and suppressing zeolite acidity. Washing after calcination enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved through high external surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and the order of component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles for selective propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores become stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation of active components, enhancing electron density of Pt to weaken Pt(C-C) bonds, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke on supports, cofeeding streams like H2 and CO2, enhancing oxygen mobility for coke oxidation, and transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are critical; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size improve metal dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K can poison strong acid sites, while doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms enhance metal-support interaction and stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction allows formation of Pt-based bimetals, while strong CeO2-metal interactions trap Pt ions and enable coke elimination with water vapor. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, including carbon nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability in acidic/basic media. Each support has unique characteristics affecting catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and enhancing anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability. Acidic properties of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion-promoted Zr-Al-Beta demonstrated enhanced stability and carbon deposit tolerance, with XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirming modifications on acid sites. Untreated materials showed poor selectivity and high coke deposit, whereas alkali-metal ion treatment improved catalytic performance and resistance to deactivation and coking. Optimum results (97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol at 99.6% conversion of furfural) were achieved with 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods for creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity, as demonstrated in the cascade conversion of cinnamaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity, while morphological features affect diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is crucial for PDH, enhancing CH activation and propylene desorption, but excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance involve modifying support properties, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to improve diffusion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C and 24 h TOS). The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance against coke formation. This leads to a slightly higher activation energy for the PDH reaction (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), which, despite decreasing initial activity, results in superior performance in terms of both activity and selectivity at steady state conditions. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. A diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis lead to silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopies. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed, containing both Pt and Y with a 3:1 atomic ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. TGA profiles reveal 37 wt% coke deposition on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with rapid deactivation in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. The amount of Cr loading and the SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, directly influencing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of VOx/Al2O3 supports affects catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Optimizing these properties through support modification strategies is essential for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is vital for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows lower activity for propane dehydrogenation due to insufficiently polarizing oxygen atoms. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites enhances alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promotion of Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, indicating a future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms and PtSn alloys modify d bands, impacting dehydrogenation barriers. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability. Support modification strategies, such as adjusting AlAl distance and using promoters, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, especially in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, with no deactivation observed for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This reciprocal relationship suggests strategic support modification can optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, improve PDH catalysis, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing with water, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds, while heteroatoms in oxide substrates offer tight stabilization. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance, attributed to strong Pt-particle interaction with the Sn-zeolite framework. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Acidic and coke mobility of supports play a role in coke inhibition. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent undesirable reactions. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms have strong metal-support interactions, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, aiding in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and chemical stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Vanadium species reducibility influences performance, and MgO addition can enhance selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, especially β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are essential for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. K reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Acidic support materials, like chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance and selectivity, as evidenced by improved resistance to deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration correlate with acidity and textural properties, achieving optimal results in furfural conversion. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, like developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C, 24 h TOS). The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating better coke resistance. The activation energy for the PDH reaction increases slightly (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy. This decreases initial activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. A diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source synthesize zeolites with silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopies. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y, with an atomic ratio of about 3. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 shows high activity and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. The role of Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts is pivotal for high catalytic performance. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites with suitable acidic sites are ideal supports for CrOx catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C enhances the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 by boosting Lewis acid sites and optimizing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, enhancing anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for VOx catalysts, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting higher activity due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods, and developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for future dehydrogenation processes. Support modification strategies, including the use of supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and strategic cation choice avoids catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic performance. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons, with electrophilic CH activation through bimolecular and unimolecular pathways. Controlling proton site strength, by replacing protons with Zn and Ga, increases alkene selectivity. Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker, potentially improving selectivity for alkane dehydrogenation. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer, with the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism explaining CH activation. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and pore size effects on catalytic activity, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, following the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advanced computational methods to explore complex systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable catalytic system with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and the presence of Pt can alter the acidic properties of the support. Increasing support acidity enhances Pt properties, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its stability and structural advantages. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high performance in PDH reactions. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion in dehydrogenation catalysts, suppressing zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order, enhance Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites form stabilizing bonds with atomically dispersed Pt, anchoring particles. Pt stabilization on oxide substrate heteroatoms and in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts propane dehydrogenation selectivity and stability. Pt particles confined in zeolite framework or mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite exhibit high catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation, attributed to strong interactions and confinement effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling acidity prevents undesirable coke and isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pores increase metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 and Pt ions on CeO2 show unique interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm changes in acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, yielding 97.3% furfuryl alcohol from furfural. Post-synthetic methods create open Lewis acid sites, boosting catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions and avoids undesired pathways like dehydration and polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphological characteristics affect diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Diffusion efficiency in heterogeneous catalysts is determined by support morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties. Strategies to enhance catalytic efficiency include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C and 24 h TOS). The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating better coke resistance. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 positively correlates with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, allowing recovery after deactivation, is essential for industrial application. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts with silanol nests have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst slowly deactivates over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's role goes beyond being an inert support, offering channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts, characterized through physicochemical methods, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, are key to high catalytic performance. The Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic efficiency. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, critical for high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is significant for PDH. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal for catalytic reactions. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategies like using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. The redox property of metal centers in porous copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger zeolite pore sizes lower activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites ensures a minimum overall barrier, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. A promising design concept involves double decorating PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric modification, blocking Pt3 sites, and Ca as an electron-donating agent, enriching Pt1 sites to suppress side reactions. This strategy results in ultra-stable catalytic systems with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and this interaction can be optimized to enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity. As the acidity of the support increases, the properties of Pt are altered, which can impact reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of the acid sites on the support, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its stability and structural advantages. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction allows Ga3+ dispersion, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, enhancing Lewis acidity. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy indicates Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns confirm BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. High surface areas and micropore volumes in zeolite samples indicate well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta a robust PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and the order of component introduction, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt through Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are also stabilized on oxide substrate heteroatoms and in lattice-confined Sn, creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn particles in zeolite mesopores and Sn single-sites show high catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt particle interactions with the Sn-zeolite framework. PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in propane dehydrogenation is due to PtSn particle confinement in mesopores.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt atom coordination affects propane dehydrogenation selectivity, with saturated Pt atoms favoring the reaction and unsaturated ones catalyzing side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity, surface area, and pore size distribution are crucial for controlling coke and enhancing metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable supports. Each support affects catalytic properties by influencing metal particle characteristics and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites are detrimental. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration influence catalytic efficiency, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, can optimize these properties, creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways. This results in superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is vital for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites favor propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation, boost propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, enabling deactivation kinetic parameters calculation. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating improved coke resistance. Higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. A diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source synthesis leads to silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts is elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high catalytic activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is crucial for PDH, with HZSM-5 zeolite's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for future dehydrogenation processes. Support modification strategies can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH polarization can be achieved by modifying zeolite framework atoms. Proton site strength affects alkene selectivity, with weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites yielding higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity for alkane reactions, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' and hydrides' stability influenced by zeolite framework, and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interaction, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's deeper d-band center lowers reactivity. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for up to 1 month at 600C. The double modification strategy, using Pb for geometric modification to block Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, synergizes geometric and electronic effects. This results in an ultra-stable catalytic system that suppresses side reactions, enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals, such as Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic selectivity. This interplay between metal and acid active sites is crucial for reactions requiring both components, affecting cracking reactions and ring opening processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites and stabilizes bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, enhancing PDH reaction performance. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 boosts activity and stability. Al2O3's surface acidity and structure determine propane adsorption and activation, influencing coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a hydrothermal method, offer structural and catalytic stability, benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with both weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn introduces Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, promoting Pt dispersion and suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios, calcination temperatures, and water washing, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) also stabilize Pt particles, creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks or mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite exhibit high catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures, attributed to strong interactions with the support materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents undesirable coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stable support with redox properties. SiO2 supports weak interactions, favoring bimetallic alloy formation, and mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with fewer coke deposits. MXenes and carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are novel supports with large surface areas and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Support type and preparation conditions affect molybdenum oxide species, with optimal activity at monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting catalytic efficiency. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, optimize these properties for enhanced selectivity and efficiency. For instance, 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta demonstrates high tolerance to furfural concentration, achieving 97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol at 99.6% conversion of furfural. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites promotes chemical transformations and avoids undesired reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological features, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency, focusing on improving diffusion efficiency through nanosized and specific morphology supports.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    