Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance to coke. This leads to higher activation energy for the PDH reaction, enhancing Pt-Ge alloy formation and improving steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. The amount of Lewis acid sites positively correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintains activity over 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts, elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, are responsible for high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide a special environment for Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is crucial for PDH, with zeolites serving as ideal supports due to their high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and strategic cation choice avoids catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Redox cycles are crucial for CH activation on certain sites. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites improves alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential of redox properties in achieving enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, and computational advancements enable exploration of complex catalytic systems. Case studies provide insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal to dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. A promising design concept involves the double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy leads to an ultra-stable catalytic system with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites, potentially influencing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites due to its structural advantages. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 boosts non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and activation. A one-step hydrothermal method synthesizes CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficient PDH catalysis, demonstrating the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in Co-catalyzed reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, promoting Pt dispersion and preventing sintering, while also suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, and the order of component introduction, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Sn-zeolite framework confinement boosts catalytic performance due to strong Pt particle interaction. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to mesopore confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties, like surface area and pore size, are crucial for controlling coke and enhancing catalytic performance. Alkaline metals and doping can modify support acidity, while specific supports like Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties beneficial for dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and carbon-based supports provide active sites and prevent coke deposition, improving catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Vanadium species reducibility influences performance, and MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Acidic support materials, such as chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic results, such as 97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol, are achieved with controlled alkali-metal ion concentration. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways like dehydration and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Zeolites prefer Lewis acid sites for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts. This enhancement, despite slightly higher activation energy, improves steady-state performance due to better coke resistance. Support modification, exemplified by Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, as evidenced by a positive correlation between Lewis acid sites and propane conversion rate. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y, with an atomic ratio of about 3. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are crucial for high catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5 zeolite's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. VOx/ZrO2's enhanced performance is attributed to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, including the use of supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can beneficially affect both supports and active species geometrically and electronically.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkoxide intermediates formed in situ, while unimolecular pathways involve charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing protons. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating a potential research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, and theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes. Advancements in computational approaches enable deeper insights into complex catalytic systems, revealing mechanisms challenging to explore experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. A promising design concept involves the double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, enhancing stability and suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable catalyst for PDH, with outstanding performance at high temperatures for extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and the presence of Pt can alter the acidity of the support. Increasing support acidity enhances the modification of Pt properties, which can improve catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites, as observed in the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ for improved PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyzes isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structural diversity, like surface acidity, affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis, benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior in Co-catalyzed PDH is illustrated. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties significantly affect performance. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. High external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order improve Pt dispersion and stability. [1] NaCl excess stabilizes propane dehydrogenation catalysts. [2] It promotes Pt dispersion and suppresses acidity. [3] Washing increases activity and stability. [4] Specific conditions contribute to improved Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly stabilized on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability for propane dehydrogenation. Confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks, Pt particles exhibit high propane dehydrogenation performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Controlling support acidity and using high surface area supports enhances metal dispersion and prevents undesirable reactions. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation, while CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with specific alkali-metal ion types and concentrations, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength affects selectivity, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH reactions, as excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. For zeolites, Lewis acid sites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to enhance catalytic efficiency include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better coke resistance. Higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are key to high performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalysts' propane conversion, propene selectivity, and yield. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing linearly with acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can beneficially affect both supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is crucial for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect performance. Catalyst activity depends on the VOsupport bond strength, influenced by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization and coke formation (Quote 1). PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials (Quote 2). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density (Quotes 3, 4). Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance bond polarization in hydrocarbons, aiding CH activation (Quotes 5-20). Controlling proton site strength can enhance alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates (Quotes 41-47). Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Promotion of Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis, and the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. Future research should focus on achieving lower temperature dehydrogenation using materials like porous copper-aluminum frameworks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, play a crucial role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and Au atoms can enhance catalyst robustness and shift the d band of alloys, affecting dehydrogenation barriers.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Strategically decorating PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy results in outstanding PDH stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as demonstrated by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites, potentially improving catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites via its Al3+ sites, enhancing PDH activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, effectively disperse and stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting performance in PDH reactions at high space velocities. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. The effect of C3H6 desorption in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is noteworthy. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology preservation despite Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, measured by argon adsorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts the stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts and enhances Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing increases catalyst activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Specific parameters, including high external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are also stabilized on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks boosts catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites can be detrimental. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to the formation of acid sites. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to the formation of acid sites. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. The presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst. The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity. Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation. Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated. The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity. Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of different vanadium species, which affects the catalytic activity. The presence of hydroxyl groups on the support surface is crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while large V2O5 crystallites are inactive in dehydrogenation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, and the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and coke deposition. The calcination of the catalyst can remove coke but may further deactivate the catalyst due to the formation of larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species under certain conditions. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Using silica to dope the alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. The addition of MgO can improve the performance of supported vanadium catalysts by reducing coke formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The nature of the support is crucial as it not only determines the mechanical properties of the catalyst but also affects the interaction between the carrier and the active phase, which can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. For instance, alumina is the most common support, and the method of producing chromia-alumina catalysts can vary, affecting the catalyst's performance. The choice of support can also influence the catalytic activity, with different supports leading to varying orders of activity based on conversion and yield. Zirconia, as an alternative support, has been investigated for its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites, and mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for their catalytic properties in dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as seen in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials, can also influence catalytic behavior, with strong acid sites affecting cracking reactions and medium strength acid sites impacting dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize the properties of catalysts for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions can effectively poison undesirable acid sites, improving selectivity. Using zirconia as a support can prevent the formation of mixed oxides and offer higher thermal stability and surface area. Silica, with its high surface area, can stabilize Cr6+ sites, while mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors can provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability against sintering. Understanding the role of acidity in catalytic behavior can also guide the modification of supports to favor dehydrogenation reactions over cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity by altering Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. This treatment improves resistance to deactivation and coking, with optimal results at specific ion types and concentrations. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting desired reactions while minimizing undesired pathways such as dehydration and polymerization. An example is the preparation of Zr-Al-Beta zeolite, which exhibits superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is crucial for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity leading to negative outcomes. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to enhance diffusion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance to coke-induced deactivation. This leads to improved performance in terms of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions, despite a slightly higher activation energy due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The conversion rate of propane is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and regenerability, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Silanol nests, formed using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and a sodium-free silica source, are critical for the synthesis of intermetallic Pt3Y nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, confirmed by EDS analysis to contain both Pt and Y with a 3:1 atomic ratio, exhibit fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption and superior catalytic durability. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains high propane conversion and propylene selectivity for 20 days, with an activation period of 12 hours to reach full conversion. However, PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. The TGA profile reveals 37 wt% coke deposition on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst. Support modification strategies, like the use of silanol nest-containing zeolites, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are key to high catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for high activity and stability. Selecting supports for Cr-based catalysts is vital for PDH, with HZSM-5 zeolite's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing with acid site amount. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. An active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can beneficially affect supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is essential for vanadium-based catalysts, affecting performance through metalsupport interactions. Catalyst performance is influenced by the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, with different supports impacting activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and channel. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkenes. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks can enhance CH activation. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions, while unimolecular pathways involve protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 yield high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites than aluminosilicates, potentially improving selectivity. However, excessive weakness in acidity reduces CH bond cleavage efficiency. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt excels in alkane reactions due to its activity, stability, and selectivity, but coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene side reactions. Metal promoters like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improve stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation. Lewis base-assisted deprotonation may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a role for redox properties in achieving this.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally. The existence of Au atoms weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with minimal deactivation over a month at high temperatures. The geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system. This design concept synergizes promotion effects, enhancing PDH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This interplay is observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the importance of support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt, Ru, and Ga3+ ions, improving PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting performance in PDH reactions at high space velocities. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modifications, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acid sites, and Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, and curbs zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized performance is achieved with high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and strategic component introduction, all contributing to superior Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds, anchoring particles effectively. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates also tightly stabilize Pt particles. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordination-saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility are crucial for inhibiting coke formation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as specific surface area and acid-base characteristics, affect catalytic stability. Controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size distribution improve metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, preventing coke deposition. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms enhance metal-support interaction and stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates the formation of Pt-based bimetals. CeO2 supports trap Pt ions and eliminate coke deposition through redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports hinder large hydrocarbon formation, preventing coke deposits. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke deposition. MXenes and carbon materials, including carbon nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is comparable to vanadium oxide, with species dependent on loading, support, and preparation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Catalyst support is crucial, with alumina being the most common, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacting activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. Alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids unwanted reactions, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted sites catalyze cleavage reactions. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing those with specific morphologies and high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke. This results in better performance in terms of activity and selectivity at steady state. The activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst is slightly higher, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but ultimately improves steady-state performance. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is significantly influenced by physicochemical properties, notably Lewis acid sites arising from unsaturated AlIII sites in Al2O3, which are crucial for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 correlates positively with propane conversion rates, highlighting their role as active sites. The regenerable γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, showing the highest yield, is sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites and controlling crystalline structure, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) showing high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Zeolite-supported catalysts offer channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer, with acidic sites crucial for alkane conversion. Cr/HZSM-5's performance is elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, revealing Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites as key for high performance. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, while the zeolite's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring activity and stability. Support selection is crucial for Cr-based PDH catalysts, with zeolites' tunable acidity and thermal stability making them suitable. HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites is optimal for CrOx catalysts in PDH, where Brnsted acid sites play a pivotal role in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 catalysts' propane conversion, propene selectivity, and yield. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing linearly with acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. An active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects. However, environmental and safety concerns exist due to toxicity in certain catalysts. Ga catalysts, while less active, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is essential for vanadium-based catalysts, affecting performance through metalsupport interactions. The activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, influenced by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 enhance alkene selectivity by replacing protons. Proton site strength, influenced by framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on selectivity. The redox property of metal centers, as in copper-aluminum framework materials, may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barriers. PtSn alloys exhibit lower reactivity due to deeper d-band centers. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, improving anti-coking ability. The stability of metal oxides is also affected by zeolite framework structure. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites are crucial for minimizing overall barriers. The ultimate goal is to find the best catalysts for chemical processes, enabled by computational studies. Lattice mismatch between particle and support influences site environments. The complexity of systems limits complete DFT scans, focusing studies on specific catalyst aspects.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb for geometric modification to block Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable catalytic system with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as demonstrated by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and the presence of metals affects the acidic properties of supports. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, potentially enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, metals like platinum reduce the strength of acid sites on supports, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, features Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, enhancing activity. Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction efficiency. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high performance in PDH. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer improved PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta with enhanced ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Strategic support modification, including optimized calcination conditions and component introduction order, improves Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance, attributed to strong Pt-Sn zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties like surface area and pore size distribution are crucial for Pt-based catalysts. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties for coke elimination. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation, while CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke. Carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance by improving selectivity and reducing coke formation, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is essential for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better coke resistance. The activation energy for the PDH reaction increases slightly, enhancing Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 correlates positively with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, contributing to higher activity. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, allowing recovery after deactivation, is crucial for industrial sustainability. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Acidic sites, particularly Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5, are crucial for catalytic performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic efficiency. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and thermal stability, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. High amounts of acidic sites in HZSM-5 are detrimental to PDH, but suitable acidic sites make HZSM-5 a good support for CrOx catalysts. The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts is confirmed through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increasing active V3+ species and improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr catalysts, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions influence catalyst performance. Catalyst activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, and performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with higher temperatures increasing alkane conversion but decreasing alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary based on precursor impregnation sequence, and zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Controlling proton site strength is crucial for alkene selectivity, with weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites favoring higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is critical for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. The presence of acid sites on supports promotes side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. The role of potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. Future research should focus on non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes, possibly using a porous copper-aluminum framework material for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal to dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. A promising design concept involves the double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, enhancing stability and suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support influences the electronic properties of supported metals, such as Pt, which in turn affects the acidic properties of the support. Increased support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites, as evidenced by the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites for anchoring metals like Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances dispersion of Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites effectively disperse and stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 enhance non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and activation, affecting PDH reaction outcomes. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a hydrothermal method, offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. Understanding C3H6 desorption behavior in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is crucial. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and specific interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via FTIR spectra of CO adsorption. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating well-preserved structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical qualities and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and curbs zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order, significantly improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetals formation. Strong CeO2-metal interactions trap Pt ions, and water vapor aids coke elimination due to CeO2's redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke deposits. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their structure and stability, are promising supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species impacts performance, with VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is comparable to vanadium oxide, with species dependent on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction yields. Post-synthetic strategies, like creating open Lewis acid sites, improve catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and efficiency. Morphological characteristics affect diffusion, impacting catalytic performance. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing diffusion efficiency through nanosized and specific morphology supports improves catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation upon Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model successfully fits propane conversion data, enabling deactivation parameter calculation. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. Higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites arising from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates positively with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Strategic support modification, using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Metal loading inversely affects propane conversion, with lower loadings increasing metal dispersion and decreasing particle size, but also reducing durability due to increased zeolite support fraction. Support modification strategies optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are crucial for performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, critical for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Crystallization temperature affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Optimizing these properties through support modification strategies is essential for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is vital for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by active site nature and density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions, while unimolecular pathways involve framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 show high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by framework cations, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity and stability, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene side reactions. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role in catalysis. A copper-aluminum framework material shows superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C, with no observed deactivation for up to 1 month. This is achieved through a double modification strategy: Pb geometrically modifies the Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density of Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. Tuning the electronic properties of Pt can significantly enhance the catalyst's lifetime in PDH. This synergistic approach optimizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This interplay between metal and support properties offers a strategy for optimizing catalytic performance in reactions needing dual activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ sites in hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structure, particularly surface acidity, influences propane adsorption and activation. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including NaCl addition and washing, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal conditions include high external acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order, all contributing to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles confined in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create a selective, stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores yield high-efficiency catalysts for propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility inhibition are crucial. Strategies to prevent coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping in Al2O3 reduce coke. Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, aiding in coke elimination. Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials offer large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the presence of MgO, which reduces coke formation, are crucial. Using silica to dope alumina support enhances stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are essential for activity. Zeolitic supports with low acid sites lead to more active and stable catalysts. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxides resist coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, enhancing gallium hydride hydroxide species regeneration. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Acidic support materials, like chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance by improving resistance to deactivation and coking, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Diffusion efficiency, influenced by support morphology, is crucial for heterogeneous catalysts. Optimization strategies include modifying support acidity, developing nanosized supports, and synthesizing specific morphologies to enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    