Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca reduces acid centers and enhances alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst displays lower deactivation rates (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 at 600 C) compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63), indicating improved resistance to coke formation. This catalyst has a slightly higher activation energy, leading to reduced initial activity but superior performance in terms of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions, highlighting the effectiveness of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3 are crucial, with γ-Al2O3-200 exhibiting the highest yield due to its high level of strong acid sites. Propane conversion positively correlates with the amount of Lewis acid sites, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, allowing recovery after deactivation, makes it sustainable for industrial use, highlighting the importance of support modification strategies for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial in dehydrogenation reactions. A diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source synthesize zeolites with silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests enable the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity for 20 days. In contrast, PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates rapidly. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Support modification strategies, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity and stability for PDH, highlighting the role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for reactions, with Brnsted acid sites crucial for propane adsorption and activation. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly affect catalytic performance. High reaction temperatures can lead to catalyst deactivation through coke formation. Zeolites, with tunable acidity and thermal stability, are versatile supports for catalytic reactions, making HZSM-5 an ideal support for PDH due to its suitable acidic sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation (Quote [1]). PtSn interactions vary with impregnation sequence (Quote [2]), and zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by active site density (Quotes [3], [4]). Protons and exchanged metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation (Quotes [5], [6], [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16], [17], [18], [19], [20], [21], [22], [23], [24], [25], [26], [27], [28]). Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicates (Quotes [42], [43], [44], [45], [46]). Pt excels in alkane reactions due to its activity, stability, and selectivity, but deactivation from coke formation remains a challenge (Quotes [49], [50], [51], [52], [53], [54], [55], [56], [57], [58], [59], [60], [61], [62], [63], [64], [65], [66], [67], [68], [69], [70]). Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while Pt promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation (Quotes [60], [61], [62]). A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the role of redox properties in catalysis (Quotes [76], [77], [78], [79], [80], [81], [82]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and the slight enhancement of catalytic activity by larger zeolite pore sizes, play a significant role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances around 453 pm minimize overall barriers, adhering to the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies, bolstered by advancements in computational methods, aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, revealing insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms that are challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH), catalyst properties are pivotal. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites optimizes performance. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic effects, creating an ultra-stable system for PDH. The modified catalyst exhibits outstanding stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures, effectively suppressing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt's electronic properties are enhanced by increased support acidity, which in turn reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, illustrating the interplay between metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, boosts catalytic efficiency through structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, enhancing PDH activity. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, improving catalytic stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates isobutane dehydrogenation, while surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer enhanced PDH catalysis, with C3H6 desorption impacting Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modifications, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic properties for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably excess NaCl, enhance dehydrogenation reactions by improving Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and suppressing zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability through Pt compound redispersion. Optimizing conditions, including high surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and water washing, significantly boosts Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores exhibit high catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures due to strong support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are crucial for preventing undesirable coke and isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pores enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K poison strong acid sites, reducing coke on Al2O3. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetals formation. Strong CeO2-metal interactions trap Pt ions, and water vapor aids coke elimination due to CeO2's redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their properties, are promising supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition improves vanadium catalyst selectivity by reducing coke formation, while silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. This treatment affects both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, with ion type and concentration impacting efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies optimize these properties, creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting desired reactions while minimizing undesired pathways. An example shows improved catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether, underscoring the significance of tuning acid properties for enhanced selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, with morphology influencing diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating enhanced resistance to deactivation by coke. This results in superior steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high concentration of strong acid sites, achieves the highest propane conversion and selectivity. The amount of Lewis acid sites is positively correlated with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerability of γ-Al2O3-200 makes it a sustainable catalyst for industrial use, as the deactivation is reversible.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. They show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. An activation period is observed before full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, synthesized by wet impregnation, excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Developing efficient PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports, with channel confinement effects and acidic sites, are crucial for catalytic reactions. Acidic sites in zeolites are pivotal for alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, elucidated through characterization and PDH tests, drive high catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites' tunable acidity and thermal stability make them ideal supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of Al2O3 supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VO-support bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation [1]. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials [2]. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by active site nature and density [3,4]. Electrostatic fields between metal ions and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation [5]. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation [15,16]. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 exhibit high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites, enhancing selectivity [43]. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability [48]. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity and stability for alkane reactions [49], but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge [51]. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions [60]. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but accelerates deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows improved performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a promising direction for future research [76].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and larger zeolite pore sizes that slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimize overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies provide molecular-level insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, specifically PDH. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation for up to 1 month at 600C. Pb geometrically modifies the catalyst by blocking Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalytic system and enhancing the catalyst's lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt alters the support's acidity, reducing acid site strength. This dual interaction optimizes catalytic performance, crucial for reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, enhances stability and anchors metal sites like Pt and Ru. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's local electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Surface areas and micropore volumes are high, indicating preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts, optimizing catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, and calcination conditions, along with the order of component introduction, improves Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn secure small Pt particles, boosting propane dehydrogenation selectivity. Single-site Sn and PtSn bimetallics confined in zeolite and hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores, respectively, improve catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, which can be mitigated by adjusting support acidity and enhancing coke mobility. Optimization strategies include geometric separation of active components, increasing electron density to weaken Pt bonds and suppress deep dehydrogenation, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke formation, and cofeeding H2 and CO2 to aid coke elimination. Enhancing oxygen mobility and transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports also improve stability. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size distribution enhance metal dispersion and prevent undesirable reactions. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, increasing stability. Weakly interacting supports like SiO2 allow the formation of Pt-based bimetals, while CeO2's strong interaction with metal particles and redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition, while carbon materials provide large surface area and stability in various media. Each support's characteristics can alter selectivity and reaction stability by influencing metal particle properties and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with MgO addition improving selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances stability and activity of vanadium oxide catalysts. Molybdenum oxide species formation depends on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Spectroscopy confirms changes in acid sites, and optimal efficiency is achieved by tuning acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting desired reactions. A Zr-Al-Beta zeolite, with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, excels in cinnamaldehyde conversion, showing superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Support modification strategies optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, with morphology crucial for diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is essential for PDH, excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Optimization strategies, including nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, significantly enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. Specifically, the Ca-promoted catalyst demonstrates a lower deactivation function (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600°C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating superior resistance to deactivation by coke. This enhanced performance is attributed to the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, which, despite decreasing initial activity due to slightly higher activation energy (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), improves steady-state activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits greater activity in propane dehydrogenation, correlating with enhanced conversion rates. Specifically, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial use. Strategic support modification, such as increasing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. A synthesis method using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. An activation period is observed before full conversion is reached. Propane conversion exceeds equilibrium values initially. Low catalyst loading correlates with higher propane conversion due to increased metal dispersion. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in CrOx/HZSM-5 catalysts significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) exhibiting high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolites, especially HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for catalysis, where Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and activation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance, while HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores improve Cr species dispersion and stability. Support modification strategies, focusing on Cr-based catalysts and zeolite properties, are crucial for optimizing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and the distribution of surface V species in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports. The development of active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered a viable process in the future.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Catalyst design should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic activity. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions held to zeolite oxygen ions, while unimolecular pathways involve charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing protons. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating a potential for lower temperature reactions. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and metal center redox properties are promising for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and larger pore sizes lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts, with computational advancements enabling complex system exploration. Promoters enhance robustness against coking, Au atoms in alloys increase dissociation barrier height, and PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. The ultimate goal is to find optimal catalysts for specific chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. The double modification of PtGa with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C, as evidenced by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt catalyst properties are influenced by support acidity, which in turn affects catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Increased support acidity modifies Pt properties, while Pt presence alters support acidity, impacting catalytic performance. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, underscoring the significance of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, enhancing stability. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction boosts PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, effectively disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH reaction performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a one-step hydrothermal method, offer superior PDH catalysis compared to Co/Al2O3-IMP. The effect of C3H6 desorption in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is significant. Strategic support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's dual acid sites, with Si-Beta lacking acidity post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acidity, and Pt-Zn interaction boosts ammonia desorption intensity. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR studies the crucial local electronic environment of Pt for PDH. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn addition. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and moderating acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high surface acid sites and specific Na/Pt ratios, improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions boost Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Unsaturated Al3+ sites in Al2O3 stabilize atomically dispersed Pt through Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores serve as stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by propylene adsorption configuration and strength. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties, like surface area and pore size, are crucial for preventing coke and enhancing catalytic stability. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit unique properties. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable in various media. Each support affects catalytic properties by altering metal particle characteristics and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. Reducibility of vanadium species influences catalytic performance, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Acid sites are detrimental to performance, facilitating cracking and coke formation. Support modification strategies, such as MgO addition and silica doping, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification optimizes acidity and textural properties, correlating with enhanced catalytic efficiency. Strategic support modification, such as post-synthetic methods, creates stronger Lewis acidity, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, affecting selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH, avoiding CC cracking, with Lewis acid sites in zeolites preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties, including developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces to enhance diffusion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers and enhances alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C, 24 h TOS, from 96.4%. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The active site for the catalytic cycle is the Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high density of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 correlates positively with propane conversion rates, indicating their role as active sites. γ-Al2O3 has more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, contributing to higher catalytic activity. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, allowing recovery after deactivation, is essential for industrial application. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the presence of silanol nests in zeolites synthesized with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed within these nests, exhibit high catalytic durability, achieving 20 days of operation with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity (Quote 3). These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt (Quote 4). Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on (Quote 13). The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains high performance for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day (Quote 6). 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst (Quote 14). Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores ensure dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, vital for activity and stability. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) significantly influence propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Crystallization temperature affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support modification, such as using TiO2, optimizes properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by their shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density impact framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites yield higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Pt promotion with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a future research direction in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite framework and pore size effects on catalytic activity, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Strategic support modifications, like adjusting metal oxides and pore sizes, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advanced computational methods. Insights from case studies elucidate dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering knowledge hard to attain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are critical. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in PDH, with minimal deactivation over 1 month at 600C. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable system that suppresses side reactions, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity enhances Pt properties, while Pt reduces acid site strength, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification can optimize this interplay for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, anchors metal sites and boosts PDH reaction activity and stability through interactions with Ga2O3. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, enhancing PDH performance. Surface properties of Al2O3, such as acidity at low-coordinated Al sites, affect propane adsorption and activation. A hydrothermal method synthesizes CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficient PDH catalysis, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt is significant for PDH, as revealed by CO adsorption FTIR spectra. XRD patterns display BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved microporous structures. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably NaCl excess, enhance stability and Pt dispersion in propane dehydrogenation, reducing acidity and preventing sintering. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, calcination conditions, and component introduction order improves Pt dispersion and stability, crucial for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while Pt particles are tightly bound to oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn propane dehydrogenation catalysts. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high propane dehydrogenation performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable high-temperature propane dehydrogenation catalysts, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, enhancing electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, increasing oxygen mobility, and facilitating coke transfer. Support properties like controlled acidity and high surface area are crucial; they prevent coke formation and enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit unique properties, with CeO2's redox properties eliminating coke under propane dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable, affecting catalytic selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species forming below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. VOV and VO bonds are more easily reduced than VO-support bonds, affecting catalytic performance. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated for its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Strategic support modification, such as alkali-metal ion addition to Zr-Al-Beta zeolites, boosts catalytic performance by enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Tuning acidity and textual properties, influenced by alkali-metal ion type and concentration, optimizes efficiency. Post-synthetic methods create stronger Lewis acid sites, promoting desired chemical transformations. A balanced Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites exhibits superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion, highlighting the importance of controllable acid property tuning for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and efficiency. Morphological features influence diffusion efficiency. Strategic support modifications, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties. Proper acidity is critical for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers and boosts alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity to 98.5% and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows a deactivation rate of 0.05 h^-1 and residual activity of 0.82 at 600°C, compared to 0.22 h^-1 and 0.63 for the non-promoted sample, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. This is attributed to a higher activation energy for the PDH reaction, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Lewis acid sites, originating from AlIII in Al2O3, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in propane conversion. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits superior activity. Specifically, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and selectivity. Its regenerability in propane dehydrogenation reactions ensures sustainability for industrial applications. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy (quote 2). These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity (quote 3). Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt (quote 4). Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability (quote 5). The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibits slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation (quote 6). The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, but the formation of the intermetallic compound requires atomistic migration of yttrium through silanol nests on the zeolite (quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) showing high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Zeolites, with tunable acidity and thermal stability, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts. HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites make it a good choice for CrOx catalysts in PDH, where the selection of supports is critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification can decrease VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support modification strategies, such as using Mg and P, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and optimal AlAl distance around 453 pm, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions by lowering activation barriers and minimizing overall barriers. Promoters like Au atoms weaken CH bond interaction, increasing dissociation barrier height, while PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. Theoretical studies, aided by advancements in computational methods, aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, revealing insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms that are challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties are critical. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes geometric and electronic effects, enhancing stability and selectivity. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy, exemplified by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, achieves exceptional stability, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity influences the electronic properties of metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Conversely, Pt alters support acidity, reducing acid site strength. This interplay, evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening, suggests strategies for optimizing catalytic performance through support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances stability and anchors metal sites like Pt and Ru, while the Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, and surface acidity affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, are benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP, illustrating the effect of C3H6 desorption in PDH reactions. Support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's weak and strong acid sites, with Si-Beta lacking acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta indicating Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows small aggregates and close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved under conditions of high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites and oxide substrate heteroatoms stabilize Pt, enhancing catalytic performance. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles for selective propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in zeolite mesopores form stable, high-performance propane dehydrogenation catalysts, with efficiency attributed to particle confinement and strong interaction with the zeolite framework.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial for preventing coke and improving catalytic stability. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, such as nanotubes and graphene, are stable supports in acidic/basic media. Each support affects catalytic properties by influencing metal particle characteristics and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including surface area-to-metal loading ratio, reducibility of vanadium species, and support type, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Monomeric vanadium species form below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. VOV and VO bonds are more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. β-Ga2O3, with high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites, is crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia is an alternative support offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability against sintering.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion promotion in Zr-Al-Beta boosts stability and resistance to carbon deposits, enhancing catalytic performance and selectivity. Post-synthetic modification creates stronger Lewis acidic sites, increasing catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties optimizes chemical transformations, preventing undesired reactions such as dehydration, polymerization, and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity. Morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as creating nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers, boosting propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C after 24 h TOS, and enhances stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating improved resistance to coke. The activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst is higher (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), attributed to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, originating from unsaturated AlIII sites, are crucial as they directly impact the propane conversion rate. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high concentration of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield and selectivity. This catalyst's regenerability, allowing recovery from deactivation, is vital for industrial sustainability. Support modification strategies, focusing on enhancing Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, critical for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains high performance for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Notably, 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst, affecting its performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH). CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Zeolite supports, especially HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. The Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are responsible for high catalytic performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 ensure the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, crucial for high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is significant for PDH, with zeolites offering high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity. Only HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites can serve as an effective support for CrOx catalysts in PDH. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a pivotal role in propane adsorption and activation, directly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support modification strategies optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the density of active sites. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with the charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicate due to weaker proton sites. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers plays a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides and hydrides, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Their stability is influenced by the zeolite framework structure, and larger zeolite pore sizes lower activation barriers, enhancing catalytic activity. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl, can minimize overall barriers based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, and computational advancements enable the exploration of complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, specifically in PDH. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation over 1 month at 600C. Pb geometrically modifies the Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This dual modification strategy optimizes the catalyst's geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalyst system.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity enhances Pt properties, while Pt reduces acid site strength, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification optimizes these properties for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions by anchoring Pt and Ru, enhancing performance. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters for high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer improved PDH catalysis, with C3H6 desorption behavior crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhancing ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. Surface area and micropore volume analysis by argon adsorption/desorption shows well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion on Si-Beta. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal. Excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, curbs sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, featuring high surface acid site concentration and specific Na/Pt ratios, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds, anchoring particles. Lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) enhances Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, enhancing electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, increasing oxygen mobility, and facilitating coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties, such as surface area and pore size, are critical for catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, forming bimetals, while CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions and eliminating coke with water vapor. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Supports alter selectivity and stability by influencing metal particles and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, existing as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites based on molybdenum loading, type of support, and catalyst preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and various methods have been explored to produce chromia-alumina catalysts. The choice of support can influence the stability and dispersion of the active phase, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Zirconia has been investigated as an alternative support due to its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance, improving the performance of chromia-based catalysts. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Doping with alkali metals can stabilize the structure of the support, reduce surface acidity, and increase the number of active sites. Using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion treatment on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts selectivity and reduces coke formation, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies, such as creating open sites with strong Lewis acidity, enhance catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity. Morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is critical for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies like nanosized supports and specific morphologies enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is enhanced by reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. Despite slightly higher activation energy (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), the promoted catalyst shows better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity due to enhanced resistance against deactivation by coke. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the physicochemical properties of catalysts, particularly Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are critical. γ-Al2O3 has more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, enhancing its activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high density of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. This highlights the importance of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Notably, the PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintained high propane conversion and propylene selectivity over 20 days, while the Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles' reversible chemisorption behavior at room temperature contrasts with the partially reversible behavior of monometallic Pt due to strong Pt-H bond formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, leading to high catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores provide an optimal environment for Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly affect catalytic performance. Zeolites, with their high surface area, channels, thermal stability, and tunable acidity, serve as effective catalysts or supports. HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites is optimal for CrOx catalysts in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metal-support interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategies like using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods, and the development of an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on the support material vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and controlling proton site strength can enhance alkene selectivity. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. Redox cycles are crucial for CH activation on certain sites. Proton site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 exhibits lower activity due to reduced oxygen basicity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites improves alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and stability for alkane reactions, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Promoters like Au atoms weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barriers. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability, as they inhibit the adsorption of formed propylene. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, aided by advancements in computational methods, revealing insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, demonstrates exceptional stability in PDH at 600C for up to 1 month. This design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable system that enhances PDH efficiency by suppressing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt's electronic properties are influenced by support acidity, with increased acidity enhancing these properties. Conversely, Pt diminishes the strength of the support's acid sites, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppressed cracking reactions on Pt-modified catalysts, offers potential to optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors Pt and Ru sites on its (100) facets, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 boost isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, benchmark structural and catalytic stability against Co/Al2O3-IMP. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. XRD patterns confirm BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta a robust PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions; excess NaCl enhances stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized Pt dispersion and stability are achieved under specific conditions: high surface acid site concentration, controlled Na/Pt ratio, moderate calcination temperature, and strategic component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt particle stability is enhanced by metal-support interactions, notably Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites forming stabilizing Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Confined Sn in zeolite frameworks and hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores strongly interact with Pt particles, creating selective and stable catalysts for propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures. These strategies optimize catalytic performance by anchoring Pt particles and leveraging bimetallic effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt catalyzes side reactions leading to coke formation. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity include geometric separation, increasing electron richness to weaken Pt bonds, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke, cofeeding streams for coke elimination, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and avoid coke on Al2O3. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 and Pt ions on CeO2 offer stability and redox properties for coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface area and stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, depending on loading, support, and preparation, can be monomers, polymers, or crystallites, with optimal activity at monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and minimizing coke formation. Tuning acidity and textural properties, influenced by the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions, achieves optimal efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies create stronger Lewis acidic sites, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites is essential for promoting desired reactions and avoiding undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity, with proper acidity being crucial for PDH to avoid CC cracking. Morphology impacts diffusion efficiency, and Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, including nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    