Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits higher activation energy, attributed to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves resistance against deactivation by coke, leading to better steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 are critical, with γ-Al2O3 showing higher activity due to more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3. Propane conversion rates correlate with the amount of Lewis acid sites, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are essential for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, evenly distributed with a size of about 2 nm and containing both Pt and Y, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Unlike monometallic Pt, Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. Strategic support modification, like using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition, and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with rapid deactivation in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolite's channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer enhance catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, characterized through physicochemical methods, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, are essential for high catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite high cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and the importance of metal center redox properties for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies provide insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, especially in PDH. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation for up to 1 month at 600C. Pb strategically blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. Tuning Pt's electronic properties enhances PDH catalyst longevity. The double modification strategy, combining geometric and electronic enhancements, promises an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly affects the electronic properties of supported metals like platinum, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. As support acidity increases, the electronic properties of platinum are altered, enhancing catalytic performance. Conversely, platinum's presence reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts. This metal-acid site interaction is pivotal for optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support in heterogeneous catalysis, enhances performance through structural stability and the presence of Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, improving activity. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and activation, impacting catalytic selectivity. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, enhancing ammonia desorption intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl in MFI-zeolite catalysts enhances stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and reduces acidity, crucial for propane dehydrogenation. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid site concentrations and specific calcination temperatures, along with the order of component introduction, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability, crucial for catalytic performance. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles tightly anchor on oxide substrate heteroatoms, while small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks boosts catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores stabilize the catalyst at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordination saturation of Pt atoms enhances propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, influence catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. CeO2 supports trap Pt ions and, with water vapor, eliminate coke deposition due to redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their structures and properties, are also used as supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with MgO addition improving selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, with species formation dependent on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. The choice of support, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, influences the dispersion and stability of the active phase, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance and selectivity, as evidenced by increased resistance to deactivation and coking. Post-synthetic methods for support modification create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, enhancing catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and prevents undesired pathways like dehydration and polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphological features, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength impacts selectivity, with proper acidity enhancing PDH while excessive acidity can lead to undesired reactions. Morphological qualities affect diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation, whereas Brnsted acid sites favor cleavage reactions. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Ca addition to catalysts enhances propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions by reducing acid centers and increasing alloy formation. The promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1 vs 0.22 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs 0.63) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance to coke formation. This optimization strategy boosts steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3 are critical. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, facilitating the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 is challenging. Zeolite supports, especially acidic sites, are critical for alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, confirmed by physicochemical characterizations and PDH tests, are pivotal for performance. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact catalytic efficiency. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective PDH supports. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are crucial for propane activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Strategic cation selection avoids catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites form in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion interactions. Oxidative addition and Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanisms describe CH activation on different sites. Proton site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows improved performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and optimal AlAl distances around 453 pm, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions by lowering activation barriers and minimizing overall barriers as per the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details otherwise unattainable.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, specifically PDH. The double modification of PtGa, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites electronically, creates an ultra-stable system. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability at high temperatures for extended periods, with minimal deactivation, highlighting the importance of electronic property tuning for enhanced catalytic lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, the presence of Pt alters the strength of acid sites, affecting support acidity. This interplay is critical for reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites, as seen in the modification of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, stabilizes bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, and enhances PDH reaction performance. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting activity and stability. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that parent H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The interaction between Pt and Zn is evidenced by enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, indicating strong interaction. The robustness of Pt-Zn/Si-Beta for PDH is attributed to the close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species. Surface area analysis confirms high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving the microporous structure post-metal incorporation. The introduction of Pt does not alter Zn dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl in MFI-zeolite catalysts boosts stability and Pt dispersion, while suppressing acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, a Na/Pt atomic ratio of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) or zeolite frameworks, like Sn-zeolite, strongly interact with Pt particles, boosting catalytic performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while CeO2's redox properties eliminate coke under propane dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic selectivity and stability differently, impacting the overall efficiency of dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, with species formation dependent on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites, specifically 0.025 M-Na+ ions, optimizes catalytic performance by enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Post-synthetic strategies, such as creating open Lewis acid sites, further improve catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, steering reactions towards desired outcomes while minimizing undesired pathways like dehydration and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, whereas excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Morphology impacts diffusion efficiency in heterogeneous catalysts. Optimization strategies include support modification, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to enhance diffusion. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates (0.05 h^-1 vs. 0.22 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance against coke formation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but boosts steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is critical for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, as demonstrated by the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst's high yield and selectivity. This catalyst's regenerability, allowing recovery after deactivation, is crucial for industrial applications, making it a sustainable choice. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites and controlling crystalline structure, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopies. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. The conversion-vs-loading relationship indicates that increasing metal dispersion at low loadings enhances conversion, but lower durability at low catalyst loading is due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolites, with their acidity and morphological features, offer a unique environment for catalysis, where Brnsted acid sites play a crucial role in alkane conversion. Physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments reveal the importance of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high catalytic activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support for PDH. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, significantly impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and strategic cation choice avoids unwanted catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic performance. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons, with electrophilic CH activation through proton and carbenium ion interactions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts show high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while metal promotion improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material offers better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, with potential for lower temperature operation, indicating a future research direction in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides and hydrides influenced by the zeolite framework, and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods for complex catalytic systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms and PtSn alloy modify d bands and dehydrogenation barriers, respectively, impacting catalytic efficiency. The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, weakening the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. The lower reactivity on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework. The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2, with calculations suggesting an optimal AlAl distance of 453 pm for a minimum overall barrier.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites optimizes these effects. This strategy creates an ultra-stable catalytic system, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, with almost no deactivation observed. The electron-enriched Pt1 site effectively suppresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and vice versa. Increased support acidity enhances Pt's electronic properties, while Pt's presence reduces the strength of the support's acid sites, affecting pyridine desorption and suppressing cracking reactions during decalin ring opening. These metal-acid site interactions can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity in reactions requiring both active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors Pt and Ru via Al3+ sites, enhancing performance. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer structural and catalytic stability for PDH reactions. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably NaCl excess, enhance stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts and improve Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and the order of component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt particle stability is enhanced by manipulating metal-support interactions, particularly with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites forming stabilizing Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and stabilized by lattice-confined Sn for selective propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores act as stable, high-efficiency catalysts at high temperatures, demonstrating the importance of support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke include separating active components, enhancing Pt electron density to weaken Pt(C-C) bonds, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding H2 and CO2, enhancing oxygen mobility for coke oxidation, and transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are critical; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size improve metal dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K can poison strong acid sites, while doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms enhance metal-support interaction and stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction allows formation of Pt-based bimetals, while strong CeO2-metal interactions trap Pt ions and enable coke elimination with water vapor. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, including carbon nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability in acidic/basic media. Each support has unique characteristics affecting catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and enhancing anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability. Acidic properties of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion treatment, as demonstrated with Zr-Al-Beta, enhances stability and carbon deposit tolerance, improving catalytic performance and selectivity. This treatment led to a 97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol at 99.6% conversion of furfural. Post-synthetic methods for creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity, as seen in the cascade conversion of cinnamaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity. Morphological features affect diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH, enhancing CH activation and propylene desorption, but excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance involve modifying support properties, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to improve diffusion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably the reduction of acid centers and increased alloy formation upon Ca addition to Al2O3, boost propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C and 24 h TOS. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating superior resistance to coke formation. This results in a slightly higher activation energy for the PDH reaction (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), enhancing the catalyst's performance in terms of both activity and selectivity at steady state conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, showing the highest yield and regenerability, is sustainable for industrial propane dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source leads to silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopies. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed, containing both Pt and Y with a 3:1 atomic ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. TGA profiles reveal 37 wt% coke deposition on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts using HZSM-5 is challenging. Acidic sites, notably Brnsted acid sites, are pivotal for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly affect Cr/HZSM-5 catalyst performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores facilitate Cr species dispersion and stabilization, enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 boost propane adsorption and CH bond activation, directly impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of VOx/Al2O3 supports affects catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Optimizing these properties through support modification strategies is essential for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows lower activity for propane dehydrogenation due to insufficiently polarizing oxygen atoms. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites enhances alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promotion of Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, indicating a future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods. Promoters like Au atoms and PtSn alloys modify d bands, impacting dehydrogenation barriers. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability. Support modification strategies, such as adjusting AlAl distance and using promoters, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties play a critical role. The strategic decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes geometric and electronic effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This results in a catalyst with outstanding stability at 600C, showing no deactivation over 1 month, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports enhances the electronic properties of metals like Pt, while the presence of Pt reduces acid site strength, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced performance, leveraging the reciprocal relationship between support acidity and metal properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances performance through structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites anchoring Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts improve PDH catalysis, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved structure. The close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably NaCl excess, enhance stability in propane dehydrogenation, improve Pt dispersion, prevent sintering, and reduce zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high surface acid site concentrations and specific Na/Pt ratios, significantly enhance Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ sites and heteroatoms in oxide substrates stabilize Pt, while lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) creates selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores offer high-temperature stability and efficiency, attributed to particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Acidic and coke mobility of supports play a role in coke inhibition. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent undesirable reactions. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms have strong metal-support interactions, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, aiding in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and chemical stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Vanadium species reducibility influences performance, and MgO addition can enhance selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, especially β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are essential for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. K reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Acidic support materials, like chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance and selectivity, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing furfural conversion. Post-synthetic support modification strategies create stronger Lewis acidic sites, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, with proper acidity crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH. Excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Morphology affects diffusion efficiency, with Lewis acid sites in zeolites being optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C and 24 h TOS, and improves stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating better resistance to deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction slightly increases (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy, which decreases initial activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. Specifically, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, synthesized with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y, with an atomic ratio of about 3. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, showing slow deactivation over 20 days, unlike PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl, which deactivates rapidly. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, as evidenced by the high propane conversion and propylene selectivity under reaction conditions using neat propane gas at 853 K.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 exhibits high activity and stability for PDH, highlighting the pivotal role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in catalytic performance. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolites, particularly HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites, are ideal supports for CrOx catalysts in PDH, as they provide a special environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH efficiency, with Brnsted acid sites playing a key role in propane adsorption and activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C enhances the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 by boosting Lewis acid sites and optimizing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, enhancing anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for VOx catalysts, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting higher activity due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods, and developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for future dehydrogenation processes. Support modification strategies, including the use of supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and strategic cation choice avoids catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic performance. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons, with electrophilic CH activation through bimolecular and unimolecular pathways. Controlling proton site strength, by replacing protons with Zn and Ga, increases alkene selectivity. Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker, potentially improving selectivity for alkane dehydrogenation. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer, with the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism explaining CH activation. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, adhering to the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to pinpoint ideal catalysts for specific processes, harnessing advanced computational methods to probe complex systems. Case studies illuminate dehydrogenation mechanisms, unveiling molecular-level details that are challenging to ascertain experimentally. Strategies like adding promoters can enhance robustness against coking, while the existence of Au atoms in alloys can increase the dissociation barrier height. The lower reactivity on PtSn alloy is attributed to a deeper d-band center. The PtCu catalyst's ability to inhibit propylene adsorption suppresses secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is influenced by the zeolite framework structure. The weak binding of intermediates on specific sites facilitates H2 desorption. The ultimate goal is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes, utilizing computational studies to access more complicated catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. The strategic modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites optimizes the catalyst. This results in an ultra-stable system, as seen in PtGaCaPb/SiO2, which exhibits exceptional stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures, effectively suppressing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt can alter the acidic properties of the support, reducing the strength of acid sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties, balancing the need for both metal and acid active sites for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, boosts catalytic efficiency through its stability and structural benefits. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH reaction performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer improved PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption in Pt-Zn/Si-Beta indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl enhances stability and Pt dispersion in dehydrogenation catalysts, mitigating zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, featuring high external acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and component introduction order, improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions improve Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt, anchoring particles. Pt stabilization in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts propane dehydrogenation selectivity and stability. Confined Pt particles in zeolite framework or mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong interactions and confinement effects, as seen in Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling acidity prevents undesirable coke and isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pores increase metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Optimal efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, yielding 97.3% furfuryl alcohol. Post-synthetic methods create open Lewis acid sites, increasing catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions and avoids dehydration and polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphological characteristics impact diffusion efficiency. Strategic support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Diffusion efficiency in heterogeneous catalysts is determined by support morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties. To enhance catalytic efficiency, strategies include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly the addition of Ca to Al2O3, significantly enhance dehydrogenation reactions by reducing acid centers and promoting alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C and 24 h TOS. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating improved coke resistance. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from the unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3 structure are critical, with γ-Al2O3-200 exhibiting the highest yield due to its high level of strong acid sites. Propane conversion positively correlates with the amount of Lewis acid sites, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, allowing recovery after deactivation, is essential for industrial application, highlighting the importance of support modification strategies for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts with silanol nests have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst slowly deactivates over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount when catalysts are fully activated, likely due to increased metal dispersion at low loadings. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's role extends beyond being an inert support, offering channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer effects. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for alkane conversion and play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic efficiency. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, critical for high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is significant for PDH, with zeolites being ideal due to their tunable acidity. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategies like using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. The redox property of metal centers in porous copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of larger zeolite pore sizes on lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites ensures a minimum overall barrier, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with advancements in computational methods enabling exploration of complex systems. Case studies provide insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties are pivotal, with geometric and electronic effects playing a critical role. A promising strategy involves double modifying PtGa intermetallics: Pb decorates the surface to geometrically block Pt3 sites, while Ca acts as an electron-donating agent, enriching Pt1 sites to suppress side reactions. This results in ultra-stable catalytic systems, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, with almost no deactivation observed.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support significantly alters the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. As acidity increases, Pt properties change, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Conversely, Pt presence reduces acid site strength, as seen in modified catalysts where cracking reactions during decalin ring opening are suppressed.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, enhances catalytic performance through its stability and structural advantages. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction allows Ga3+ dispersion, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta due to Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns confirm BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. High surface areas and micropore volumes in zeolite samples indicate well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta a robust PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing MFI-zeolite stability, promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while Pt particles are stabilized on oxide substrate heteroatoms and in lattice-confined Sn, creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn particles in zeolite mesopores and Sn single-sites exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong interactions with the Sn-zeolite framework. PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts' efficiency in propane dehydrogenation stems from PtSn particle confinement in mesopores.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination, surface structures, and support characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated ones catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity, surface area, and pore size distribution are crucial for controlling coke and enhancing metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable supports. Each support affects catalytic properties by influencing metal particle characteristics and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are essential for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites are detrimental to performance. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. A high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic support modification strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting desired chemical transformations and improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as seen in cinnamaldehyde conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites favor propane dehydrogenation over Brnsted acid sites. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces to improve diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation, significantly enhance propylene selectivity and stability. Strategic Ca promotion decreases deactivation and increases residual activity, indicating improved resistance against coke formation. The DMRA model successfully fits propane conversion data, facilitating the calculation of intrinsic deactivation kinetic parameters. Higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially reduces activity but ultimately boosts steady-state performance and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes properties for superior catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source leads to silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount when catalysts are fully activated.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in CrOx/HZSM-5 catalysts significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH). CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability. Acidic sites, especially Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high catalytic activity and stability. Support modification strategies, such as the selection of HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites, are essential for optimizing Cr-based catalysts for PDH. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for future dehydrogenation processes. Support modification strategies can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation [1]. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence [2]. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density [3][4]. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation [5][6][7]. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation [15][16]. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons [22][23][24]. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions [26][27]. CH polarization can be achieved by modifying zeolite framework atoms [20]. Proton site strength affects alkene selectivity, with weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites yielding higher selectivity [42][43]. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability [48]. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity for alkane reactions, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge [49][51]. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions [60]. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 [61][62]. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity [71]. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions [76][77].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides and hydrides influenced by the zeolite framework, and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interaction, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's deeper d-band center lowers reactivity. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates remarkable stability in PDH for up to 1 month at 600C. A double modification strategy, using Pb to geometrically block Pt3 sites and Ca to enrich Pt1 sites electronically, synergizes geometric and electronic effects. This results in an ultra-stable catalytic system that effectively suppresses side reactions, enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Conversely, Pt's presence diminishes acid site strength, affecting selectivity. This interplay between metal and acid sites is critical for reactions requiring both components, influencing cracking and ring opening processes. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Al2O3's chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3 anchors atomically dispersed Pt, Ru, and stabilizes PtSn nanoclusters, enhancing PDH reaction performance. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction boosts activity and stability. Surface acidity and structure of Al2O3 determine propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer structural and catalytic stability, benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates medium acid sites, and Zn introduces Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved microporous structures. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties, including NaCl excess, significantly enhance stability and Pt dispersion, suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, featuring high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, and water washing, markedly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites and heteroatoms in oxide substrates stabilize Pt, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts. Pt particles confined in Sn-zeolite frameworks or mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite exhibit high performance and stability at high temperatures due to strong support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as controlled acidity and high surface area, are crucial for preventing undesirable coke and enhancing metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stable support with redox properties. SiO2 supports weak interactions, favoring bimetallic alloy formation, and mesoporous materials disperse active phases with fewer coke deposits. MXenes and carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are novel supports with large surface areas and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Support type and preparation conditions affect molybdenum oxide species, with optimal activity at monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, optimize these properties for improved selectivity and efficiency. For example, 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta shows high tolerance to furfural concentration, achieving high yield and conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphology, critically affect dehydrogenation reactions. In PDH, suitable acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted sites promote cleavage reactions. Support modification strategies aim to optimize catalytic efficiency, emphasizing enhanced diffusion through nanosized and specific morphology supports.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    