Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength and alloy formation, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke formation. This catalyst also has a slightly higher activation energy, leading to decreased initial activity but better performance in terms of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions, demonstrating the effectiveness of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 correlates positively with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, which can be restored after deactivation, makes it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis method using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with Brnsted acid sites playing a key role in propane adsorption and activation. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is crucial, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support for PDH. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. High reaction temperatures can cause catalyst deactivation through coke formation. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and thermal stability, are versatile supports for catalytic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with impregnation sequence, and zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by active site density. Protons and exchanged metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicates. Pt excels in alkane reactions due to its activity, stability, and selectivity, but deactivation from coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while Pt promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the role of redox properties in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimize overall barriers, following the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, optimizes catalytic performance. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH with outstanding stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures, effectively suppressing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the electronic properties of Pt are influenced by the acidity of the support, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of the support's acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the interplay between metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modifications, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic properties for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, promoting Pt dispersion and preventing sintering, while also suppressing zeolite acidity. Washing after calcination enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing conditions such as high external surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing with water, along with the order of component introduction, significantly improves Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores exhibit high catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures due to strong interactions with the support.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling acidity prevents undesirable coke and isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pores enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K poison strong acid sites, reducing coke on Al2O3. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetals formation. Strong CeO2-metal interactions trap Pt ions, and water vapor aids coke elimination due to CeO2's redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation and improve stability. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their properties, are promising supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves vanadium catalyst selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. This treatment affects both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, with the type of ion and concentration influencing catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies can optimize these properties, creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting desired reactions while minimizing undesired pathways like dehydration and isomerization. An example demonstrates superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether, highlighting the importance of tuning acid properties for enhanced selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating better coke resistance. The PDH reaction's activation energy increases slightly for Ca-promoted catalysts due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy that initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest propane conversion and selectivity. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates positively with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerability of γ-Al2O3-200 makes it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica in synthesis creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are essential for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, with a size of about 2 nm, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. They show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. An activation period is observed before full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. The challenge lies in developing efficient PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 zeolite for high selectivity and stability. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with channel confinement effects, acidic sites, and electron transfer playing key roles. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts, elucidated through characterization and PDH tests, are responsible for high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite facilitate Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with zeolites' tunable acidity and thermal stability making them suitable. Only HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites can serve as a good support for CrOx catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of Al2O3 supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VO-support bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by active site nature and density. Electrostatic fields between metal ions and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 exhibit high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites, enhancing selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but accelerates deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows improved performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a promising direction for future research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, providing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, especially in PDH. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability, with no deactivation for up to 1 month at 600C. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. Tuning Pt's electronic properties enhances PDH catalyst lifetime. The double modification of PtGa with Pb and Ca synergizes geometric and electronic effects, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalytic system.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt alters the support's acidic properties, reducing acid site strength. This dual interaction potentially enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances stability and anchors metal sites like Pt and Ru. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer structural and catalytic stability. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's local electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Surface areas and micropore volumes are high, indicating preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability and promotes Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and suppressing acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order improves Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles for selective propane dehydrogenation. Confined Pt particles at Sn single-sites in zeolites and PtSn bimetallics in mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite boost catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, which can be inhibited by modifying support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include geometric separation of active components, increasing electron density to weaken Pt bonds and suppress deep dehydrogenation, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke formation, and cofeeding streams like H2 and CO2 to aid coke elimination. Enhancing oxygen mobility and transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports also improve stability. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size distribution enhance metal dispersion and prevent undesirable reactions. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, increasing stability. Weakly interacting supports like SiO2 allow the formation of Pt-based bimetals, while CeO2's strong interaction with metal particles and redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition, while carbon materials provide large surface area and stability in various media. Each support's characteristics can alter selectivity and reaction stability by influencing metal particle properties and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with MgO addition improving selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances stability and activity of vanadium oxide catalysts. Molybdenum oxide species formation depends on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirmed the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved by tuning acidity and textual properties, influenced by the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways. A Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites showed superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Support modification strategies optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits a lower deactivation function (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600°C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating enhanced resistance to deactivation by coke. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) is attributed to the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, which decreases initial activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, correlating with increased conversion rates. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis method using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. An activation period is observed before full conversion is reached. Propane conversion exceeds equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Low catalyst loading correlates with higher propane conversion due to increased metal dispersion. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolites provide a unique environment for catalysis, with Brnsted acid sites playing a crucial role in propane adsorption and activation. Cr loading and the SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. Support modification strategies, focusing on Cr-based catalysts and zeolite properties, are essential for optimizing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and the distribution of surface V species in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports. The development of active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered a viable process in the future.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Catalyst design should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic activity. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions held to zeolite oxygen ions, while unimolecular pathways involve charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing protons. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating a potential for lower temperature reactions. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and metal center redox properties are promising for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger zeolite pore sizes lower activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is influenced by zeolite framework structure. Optimal AlAl distance of 453 pm corresponds to a minimum overall barrier. The ultimate goal is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the electronic properties of Pt catalysts are influenced by the acidity of the support, with increased acidity altering Pt properties. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the importance of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites due to its structural stability. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, effectively disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, boosting performance in long-term PDH reactions. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a one-step hydrothermal method, offer improved PDH catalysis compared to Co/Al2O3-IMP. The effect of C3H6 desorption in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is noteworthy. Strategic support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity was assessed via NH3-TPD, showing H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and reduces acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and water washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties, like surface area and pore size, are crucial for preventing coke and enhancing catalytic stability. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit unique properties. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable in various media. Each support affects catalytic properties by altering metal particle characteristics and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. Reducibility of vanadium species influences catalytic performance, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Acid sites are detrimental to performance, facilitating cracking and coke formation. Support modification strategies, such as MgO addition and silica doping, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The nature of the support governs mechanical properties and profoundly impacts activity and selectivity through its interaction with the active phase. Alumina is the most common support, with various methods to produce chromia-alumina catalysts. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as seen in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification influences acidity and textural properties, correlating with catalytic efficiency. Optimal results are achieved with specific alkali-metal ion types and concentrations. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength and stability affect selectivity, while morphology impacts diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH, avoiding CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C, 24 h TOS). The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1, 0.63), indicating enhanced resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is marginally higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to improved GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The active site for the catalytic cycle is the Lewis acid site, arising from the unsaturated AlIII site. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is positively linked to propane conversion rates, indicating their role as active sites. γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, contributing to higher activity. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, allowing restoration after deactivation, is crucial for industrial application. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains high performance for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite-supported catalysts provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for high catalytic performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 ensure dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, vital for activity and stability. Selecting supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with zeolites offering high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity. HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites is an optimal support for CrOx catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) significantly influence propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Crystallization temperature affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support modification, such as using TiO2, optimizes properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites yield higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Pt promotion with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a future research direction in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite framework and pore size effects on catalytic activity, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advanced computational methods. Insights from case studies elucidate dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering knowledge hard to attain experimentally. Strategic support modifications, like adjusting metal oxides and pore sizes, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. In PDH, geometric and electronic effects are critical. The double modification of PtGa with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable system. This strategy ensures outstanding stability at 600C for up to 1 month, with minimal deactivation, and effectively suppresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This interplay suggests strategic support modification can optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors metal sites and enhances activity and stability in PDH reactions through interactions with Ga2O3. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface properties of Al2O3, such as acidity at low-coordinated Al sites, influence propane adsorption and activation. A hydrothermal method synthesizes CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficient PDH catalysis, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's local electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns display BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, indicate well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts and promotes Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Washing post-calcination enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, and calcination conditions, along with component introduction order, improves Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn propane dehydrogenation catalysts. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high propane dehydrogenation performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable high-temperature propane dehydrogenation catalysts, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit unique properties. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species impacts performance, with VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to the formation of acid sites. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated for its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved by tuning the acidity and textual properties, influenced by the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways. A Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with balanced Lewis and Brnsted acid sites demonstrates superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Controllable tuning of acid properties is crucial for enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and efficiency. Morphological characteristics affect diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. This is attributed to a slightly higher activation energy for the PDH reaction, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity by increasing active sites and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Metal nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed, containing both Pt and Y with a 3:1 atomic ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are crucial for performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and thermal stability, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports is critical, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it a good choice for CrOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification can decrease VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support modification strategies, such as using Mg and P, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimizes overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms weaken CH bond interaction, increasing dissociation barrier height, while PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal to dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The geometric and electronic effects are critical, with the double modification of PtGa intermetallics using Pb and Ca emerging as a promising design. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy yields a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C, as evidenced by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Conversely, the presence of Pt alters the acidity of supports, reducing acid site strength. This interplay, observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening, suggests strategies for optimizing catalytic performance by modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances stability and anchors metal sites like Pt and Ru. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Al2O3's structure, particularly surface acidity, affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, are benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP, illustrating the effect of C3H6 desorption in PDH reactions. Support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta with enhanced ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy reveals small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy indicates Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns confirm BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, indicate well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability in propane dehydrogenation, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability through redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, 400-500 C calcination, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites and oxide substrate heteroatoms stabilize Pt, while lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles for selective propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in zeolite mesopores form stable, high-performance propane dehydrogenation catalysts, with efficiency attributed to particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial for preventing coke and improving catalytic stability. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, such as nanotubes and graphene, are stable supports in acidic/basic media. Each support affects catalytic properties by influencing metal particle characteristics and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves vanadium catalyst selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize the properties of catalysts for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions can effectively poison undesirable acid sites, improving selectivity. Using zirconia as a support can prevent the formation of mixed oxides and offer higher thermal stability and surface area. Silica, with its high surface area, can stabilize Cr6+ sites, while mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors can provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability against sintering. Understanding the role of acidity in catalytic behavior can also guide the modification of supports to favor dehydrogenation reactions over cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion promotion of Zr-Al-Beta enhances stability and resistance to carbon deposits, improving catalytic performance and selectivity. Post-synthetic modification creates open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, boosting catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites optimizes chemical transformations, avoiding undesired reactions like dehydration, polymerization, and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C, 24 h TOS). The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating better coke resistance. The activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst is higher (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy. This decreases initial activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The active site for the catalytic cycle is the Lewis acid site, arising from the unsaturated AlIII site. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is positively linked to propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerability of the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, which can be restored after deactivation, is crucial for industrial application. Support modification strategies, such as increasing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are critical for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of about 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y, with an atomic ratio of approximately 3. Catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains high performance for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Notably, 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH). CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are responsible for high catalytic performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 ensure the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, crucial for high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is significant for PDH, with zeolites offering high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity. Only HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites can serve as an effective support for CrOx catalysts in PDH. The role of Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) is pivotal for propane adsorption and activation, directly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalysts' propane conversion, propene selectivity, and yield. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing linearly with acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity aids mass transfer and avoids undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr catalysts, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is essential for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect catalyst performance. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the density of active sites. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with the charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicate due to weaker proton sites. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers plays a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides and hydrides, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The stability of these components is influenced by the zeolite framework structure (Quote [7]). Zeolite pore size affects catalytic activity, with larger pores lowering activation barriers (Quote [8]). Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle (Quote [9]). Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, and computational advancements enable exploration of complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, especially in PDH. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability, with no deactivation observed for up to 1 month at 600C. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy optimizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters for high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer improved PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via FTIR CO adsorption. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. Surface area and micropore volume analysis by argon adsorption/desorption shows well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion on Si-Beta. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability and promotes Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high surface acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties, like surface area and pore size, influence catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, forming bimetals, while CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions and eliminating coke with water vapor. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Supports alter selectivity and stability by influencing metal particles and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, existing as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites based on molybdenum loading, type of support, and catalyst preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and various methods have been explored to produce chromia-alumina catalysts. The choice of support can influence the stability and dispersion of the active phase, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Zirconia has been investigated as an alternative support due to its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance, improving the performance of chromia-based catalysts. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Doping with alkali metals can stabilize the structure of the support, reduce surface acidity, and increase the number of active sites. Using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of monomeric, polymeric, or crystalline vanadium species on the catalyst. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are important for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites are detrimental to catalyst performance. Silica doping of alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. Addition of MgO can improve dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction of molybdenum oxide catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of different vanadium species, which affects the catalytic activity. The presence of hydroxyl groups on the support surface is crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while large V2O5 crystallites are inactive in dehydrogenation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, and the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and coke deposition. The calcination of the catalyst can remove coke but may further deactivate the catalyst due to the formation of larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species under certain conditions. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Using silica to dope the alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. The addition of MgO can improve the performance of supported vanadium catalysts by reducing coke formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The nature of the support is crucial as it not only determines the mechanical properties of the catalyst but also affects the interaction between the carrier and the active phase, which can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. For instance, alumina is the most common support, and the method of producing chromia-alumina catalysts can vary, affecting the catalyst's performance. The choice of support can also influence the catalytic activity, with different supports leading to varying orders of activity based on conversion and yield. Zirconia, as an alternative support, has been investigated for its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites, and mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for their catalytic properties in dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as seen in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials, can also influence catalytic behavior, with strong acid sites affecting cracking reactions and medium strength acid sites impacting dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize the properties of catalysts for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions can effectively poison undesirable acid sites, improving selectivity. Using zirconia as a support can prevent the formation of mixed oxides and offer higher thermal stability and surface area. Silica, with its high surface area, can stabilize Cr6+ sites, while mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors can provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability against sintering. Understanding the role of acidity in catalytic behavior can also guide the modification of supports to favor dehydrogenation reactions over cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion treatment on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances selectivity and reduces coke formation, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. This modification optimizes catalytic efficiency, with the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlating to acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies, like forming open sites with strong Lewis acidity, improve catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is critical for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies like nanosized supports and specific morphologies enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but results in better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably acid strength and stability, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Lewis acid sites, originating from unsaturated AlIII sites in Al2O3, are crucial for catalytic activity, with γ-Al2O3 exhibiting more such sites than θ-Al2O3, enhancing its performance in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high density of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y, with an atomic ratio of about 3. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. The challenge lies in developing efficient PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 zeolite with high selectivity and stability. Zeolite supports offer channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer, crucial for catalytic reactions. Acidic sites in zeolites determine catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. CrOx catalysts' structural properties are detected by N2 sorption, and acidity by NH3-TPD. XPS measures metal-support interactions. High reaction temperatures cause coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are responsible for high performance. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores provide a special environment for Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with high surface area, channels, thermal stability, and tunable acidity, serve as catalysts or supports. HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites is optimal for CrOx catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites play a critical role in the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategies like using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods, and the development of an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and controlling proton site strength can enhance alkene selectivity. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. Redox cycles are crucial for CH activation on certain sites. Proton site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 exhibits lower activity due to reduced oxygen basicity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites improves alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and stability for alkane reactions, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, aided by advancements in computational methods. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, particularly challenging to explore experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barriers, while PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with geometric and electronic effects being pivotal, especially in PDH. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, featuring Pb for geometric modification to block Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, demonstrates outstanding stability in PDH at 600C for up to 1 month. This design concept synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system that suppresses side reactions and enhances PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the electronic properties of Pt are influenced by the acidity of the support, with alterations increasing as support acidity rises. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of the support's acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the potential for strategic support modification to optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, anchors Pt and Ru sites on its (100) facets, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 boost isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, benchmark structural and catalytic stability against Co/Al2O3-IMP. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta a robust PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion, curbs sintering, and reduces acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Specific conditions, including surface acid site concentration, Na/Pt ratio, calcination temperature, and component introduction order, optimize Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable catalysis at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; Pt atom coordination affects selectivity, with saturated Pt favoring propane dehydrogenation and unsaturated Pt catalyzing side reactions leading to coke. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility are crucial for coke inhibition. Strategies to enhance catalytic efficiency include geometric separation, electron richness to weaken Pt bonds, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke, cofeeding streams for coke elimination, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and avoid coke on Al2O3. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 and Pt ions on CeO2 offer stability and redox properties for coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface area and stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, depending on loading, support, and preparation, can be monomers, polymers, or crystallites, with optimal activity at monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved by tuning acidity and textural properties, influenced by the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites is crucial for promoting desired chemical transformations and avoiding undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, like using nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    