Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca decreases deactivation function and increases residual activity, as evidenced by the DMRA analysis. This modification slightly raises the activation energy, initially decreasing activity but improving resistance against deactivation by coke, thus enhancing steady-state performance. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates positively with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high yield and regenerability, is sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity by optimizing these properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed on the support, containing both Pt and Y. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. TGA analysis reveals 37 wt% coke deposition on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalysts. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with rapid deactivation in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for catalysis, with Brnsted acid sites playing a key role in propane adsorption and activation. The Cr loading on HZSM-5 does not alter its crystallite structure, and the acidity properties are crucial for catalytic performance. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical, with zeolites offering suitable acidic sites for PDH. Challenges remain in achieving both high selectivity and stability, necessitating strategic support modification. The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites is elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments, revealing their responsibility for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite high cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Metal promotion of Pt improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, benefiting from advancements in computational methods that explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides can enhance robustness against coking. The existence of Au atoms in alloys increases the dissociation barrier height by weakening CH bond interaction. PtSn alloy exhibits lower reactivity due to a deeper d-band center. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is influenced by zeolite framework structure. Optimal AlAl distance of 453 pm corresponds to a minimum overall barrier. The ultimate goal is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes. Computational studies can now access more complicated catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C, with minimal deactivation over a month. The geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, optimizing the catalyst for PDH. This double modification strategy maximizes the ensemble effect, favoring CH scissions while inhibiting side reactions, thus enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals, such as Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This reciprocal interaction between metal and support acidity is crucial for optimizing catalytic performance in reactions like decalin ring opening, where cracking reactions are suppressed on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and the presence of Al3+ sites that anchor metals like Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 allows for the dispersion of Ga3+ cations, improving PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, leading to superior PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation, affecting coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal methods, offer enhanced structural and catalytic stability for PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic properties for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology preservation, with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, measured by argon adsorption, suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are crucial; excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, suppresses acidity, and washing post-calcination boosts activity. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved with high external acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores become stable catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; Pt atom coordination affects propane dehydrogenation selectivity, with saturated atoms favoring the reaction and unsaturated atoms catalyzing side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Acidic supports and coke mobility play roles in coke inhibition. Specific supports, like Al2O3, SiO2, and CeO2, have distinct effects on catalytic properties, with Al2O3 nanosheets anchoring Pt atoms for stability, SiO2 enabling Pt-based bimetals, and CeO2's redox properties aiding in coke elimination. Supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution enhance metal particle dispersion. Acid-base properties and thermal stability of supports are critical for Pt-based catalysts. Acidic sites should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. Doping with Mg or using alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K can poison strong acid sites and reduce coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and 2D transition metal carbides (MXenes) offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are stable supports in acidic/basic media. Each support's characteristics affect catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, impacting activity based on loading, support, and preparation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic supports with low medium and strong acid sites lead to more active and stable catalysts. K addition reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Acidic support materials, like chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification correlates with acidity and textural properties, achieving optimal results in furfural conversion. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies to enhance diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating better coke resistance. The PDH reaction's activation energy increases slightly for Ca-promoted catalysts due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreasing activity but improving steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield. Its regenerability, allowing restoration after deactivation, makes it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. A diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis create silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopies. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Metal nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports is critical for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P and Mg modifications can decrease VOx polymerization, disperse V2O5 crystallites, and increase active V3+ species, enhancing stability and catalytic efficiency. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr catalysts, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is essential for vanadium-based catalysts, as the metalsupport interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Cation exchange can create polarizing effects, enhancing CH activation. Strategies to enhance alkene selectivity include controlling proton site strength and eliminating proton sites for stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger zeolite pore sizes lower activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimizes overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational approaches. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification optimizes the catalyst's performance, achieving outstanding stability at 600C for up to 1 month.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, such as Pt. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting the acidic properties. This interplay between metal and acid sites, observed through changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions, is crucial for reactions requiring both active sites, influencing catalytic selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites and interacts with Ga2O3 to enhance PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Surface active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 boost non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Al2O3's structure, particularly surface acidity, affects propane adsorption and activation. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn introduces Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite surface areas and micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably NaCl's role in enhancing stability and Pt dispersion, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal conditions, including high external surface acid site concentrations and specific calcination temperatures, improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites form stabilizing bonds with atomically dispersed Pt, anchoring particles. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) also stabilize Pt, creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined in Sn-zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores exhibit high catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures due to strong interactions with support materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; Pt atom coordination affects propane dehydrogenation selectivity, with saturated Pt atoms being more selective. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Acidic supports and coke mobility play roles in coke inhibition. Specific supports like Al2O3, SiO2, and CeO2 have unique effects on catalytic performance, with Al2O3's acidity needing control to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, while CeO2's redox properties aid in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable and inert, improving catalytic stability. Each support's characteristics can alter selectivity and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, influenced by loading, support, and preparation, can be optimized for activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, with high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites, are crucial for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are necessary for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Acidic support materials can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, boosting catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Optimal reaction conditions (97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol) are achieved with 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta, showing high tolerance to furfural concentration. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts. The activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst is slightly higher, attributed to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves resistance against coke deactivation, leading to better steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is directly linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopies, facilitating the formation of intermetallic Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, exhibiting fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, enhance catalytic durability and selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains high propane conversion and propylene selectivity for 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Metal nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed, containing both Pt and Y with a 3:1 atomic ratio. The catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Deposited coke species on spent catalysts are quantified at 37 wt%. Catalyst loading inversely affects propane conversion, with lower loadings increasing metal dispersion and decreasing particle size, but also reducing durability due to a higher zeolite support fraction. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a critical role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts, elucidated through characterization and PDH tests, are key to high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is significant for PDH, with zeolites' tunable acidity and thermal stability making them ideal. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. However, environmental and safety concerns exist due to the toxicity of certain catalysts. Ga catalysts, while less active, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect performance. Catalyst activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, and performance varies with different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Recent studies show electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H-ZSM-5 has lower alkene selectivity due to unexchanged proton sites. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity, but faces challenges with coke formation. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and Au atoms can increase robustness against coking and shift the d band of alloys, affecting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric modification and Ca as an electron-donating agent, creates an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density of Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions and enhancing stability. This strategy results in a catalyst with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and the presence of Pt alters the acidity of the supports. Increasing support acidity enhances Pt properties, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its stability and the presence of Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal method, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, with enhanced ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy indicates Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's local electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns confirm BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, indicate preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite catalyst stability in propane dehydrogenation, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and curbs zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt particles, improving selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined in zeolite frameworks or mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong interactions with the support, making them stable at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to coke. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity control and high surface area, prevent undesirable coke and improve stability. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties to eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke, while carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including support type, metal loading, and reducibility, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Support structure, like mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide, increases resistance to coking. K addition reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, boosting conversion and selectivity. Support modification strategies, such as using mixed oxides, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies optimize these properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH reactions, preventing CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing diffusion efficiency through nanosized and specific morphology supports improves catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better coke resistance. The activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst is slightly higher, enhancing Pt-Ge alloy formation and improving steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The regenerable γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high yield and reversible deactivation, is sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica in synthesis creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are essential for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. Homogeneously distributed across the support, the nanoparticles are approximately 2 nm in size, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 atomic ratio. Catalysts like PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH show superior durability compared to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg. An activation period is observed before full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. TGA analysis reveals 37 wt% coke deposition on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalysts. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts' performance is elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for PDH catalysts. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies, such as varying crystallization temperatures, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, higher crystallization temperatures increase Lewis acid sites and influence surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, enhancing anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing protons. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity and stability for alkane dehydrogenation. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while metal promoters like Sn, Ga, and Zn improve stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. Recent findings suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with redox properties aiding lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches for complex catalytic systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency by weakening CH bond interaction and inhibiting propylene adsorption, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent enriching Pt1 sites, suppresses side reactions and enhances stability. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, with no significant deactivation observed for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the electronic properties of Pt are influenced by the acidity of the support, with alterations increasing as support acidity rises. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This interplay is observed through changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the importance of support modification strategies for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, features Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, enhancing performance. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal method, offer improved PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta with both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta a robust PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst performance is significantly influenced by physicochemical properties. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite catalyst stability for propane dehydrogenation, promoting Pt dispersion and preventing sintering, while also suppressing zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and the order of component introduction, improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt particles, improving selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite ensure stability at high temperatures, with high efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with Pt atom coordination affecting propane dehydrogenation selectivity and surface structures governing coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Controlling support acidity and using high surface area supports enhances metal dispersion and catalytic stability. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent coke formation. Mesoporous materials and 2D carbides like MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are chemically inert and stable, enhancing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological features, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. To optimize catalytic performance, strategies focus on enhancing diffusion efficiency through nanosized supports and specific morphologies, as summarized in Table 3.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating improved coke resistance. This catalyst has a slightly higher PDH activation energy, enhancing Pt-Ge alloy formation and reducing initial activity, yet it performs better in steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites arising from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, are critical for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. The conversion-vs-time plot reveals an activation period for full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. Deposited coke species account for 37 wt% on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalysts. Support modification strategies, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite-supported catalysts offer a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are key, as revealed by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. CrOx catalysts' structural properties are detected by N2 sorption, and acidity by NH3-TPD. XPS measures metal-support interactions. High reaction temperatures cause coke formation, leading to deactivation. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites enhance catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H-ZSM-5 with unexchanged proton sites shows lower alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites have weaker proton sites than aluminosilicates, potentially enhancing alkene selectivity for alkane dehydrogenation. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Pt promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer. The electronic promotion effect of Sn aligns with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, with potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, indicating a future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structural diversity, like surface acidity, affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, promoting Pt dispersion and preventing sintering, while also suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing with water, contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability for propane dehydrogenation. Sn-zeolite framework confinement improves Pt particle catalytic performance, and PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores create stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is significantly influenced by physicochemical properties. Pt atom coordination affects selectivity, with saturated atoms favoring propane dehydrogenation and unsaturated atoms catalyzing side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility are crucial for inhibiting coke. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include geometric separation to improve selectivity, electron richness to weaken Pt bonds and suppress deep dehydrogenation, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke, cofeeding streams for coke elimination, enhancing oxygen mobility for improved stability, and coke transfer to prolong catalyst life. Support properties, such as surface area and acid-base characteristics, are critical for preventing undesirable coke and isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, with CeO2's redox properties aiding in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface area and stability. Each support's characteristics can alter selectivity and stability by influencing metal particles and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences the formation of vanadium species, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Using silica to dope alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions, can affect catalytic performance. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. This treatment optimizes acidity and textual properties, achieving high yields in furfural conversion. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity, while morphological features affect diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but results in better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest propane conversion rate and selectivity. The regenerability of this catalyst, allowing recovery after deactivation, is essential for industrial application. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source leading to silanol nest formation in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with rapid deactivation in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic performance. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for high catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring activity and stability. Support selection is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with zeolites offering suitable acidic sites for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by affecting Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P and Mg modifications can enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst stability and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. However, environmental and safety concerns exist with certain catalysts due to their toxicity. Ga catalysts, while less active, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect performance. The activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, and different supports can impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon adsorbate bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity than cheaper alternatives. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is evident. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation, while Lewis base-assisted deprotonation explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent report suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C through the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and the slight effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier based on the Sabatier principle enhances catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, providing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The strategic decoration of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density of Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity influences the electronic properties of supported metals, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. The presence of metals, like platinum, affects the acidity of supports, reducing acid site strength. This interaction is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, suggesting strategies to optimize catalytic performance through support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Al2O3's structural advantages and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalyst properties for enhanced efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, and curbs zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, as seen with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchoring atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt particles, creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores become stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties to eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke, while carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites can be detrimental. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction of molybdenum oxide catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, with Mo present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. The study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity. The performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity. Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. The study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The nature of the support is crucial as it not only determines the mechanical properties of the catalyst but also affects the interaction between the carrier and the active phase, which can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion promotion on Zr-Al-Beta enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic modification strategies, like forming open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, optimize catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids unwanted reactions, such as dehydration, polymerization, and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency. Enhancements include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces to improve diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Ca addition reduces Al2O3 acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. DMRA analysis reveals lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating enhanced coke resistance. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, decreases initial activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is positively linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are pivotal, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for high catalytic performance. The selection of supports is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, and catalyst performance is influenced by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite high cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Metal promotion of Pt improves stability but accelerates deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the role of metal center redox properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite structure and pore size effects on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency and anti-coking ability, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, especially in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy yields a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, which in turn affects the acidic properties of the supports. Increased support acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, suppressing cracking reactions and potentially improving selectivity in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, features Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, enhancing activity. Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction performance. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyzes isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structure, like surface acidity, influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer improved PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, reveals that parent H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds higher amounts of Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates below 100 nm, with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, promoting Pt dispersion and preventing sintering, while also suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and the order of component introduction during calcination improves Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt through Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include geometric separation to inhibit side reactions, electron richness to weaken Pt bonds and suppress deep dehydrogenation, poisoning acid sites to prevent coke deposition, and cofeeding streams to enhance coke elimination. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size improve metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation help eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable and inert supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the presence of MgO, which reduces coke formation, enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide, similar to vanadium oxide, exists as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to the formation of acid sites. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity. Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation. Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated. The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity. Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping with alkali metals can stabilize the structure of the support, reduce surface acidity, and increase the number of active sites. Using mixed oxides can also improve the thermal stability and coking resistance of the catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification affects acidity and textural properties, correlating with catalytic efficiency. Optimal results (97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol) were achieved with 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta, showing high tolerance to furfural concentration. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids unwanted reactions, such as dehydration and polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity, while morphological features affect diffusion efficiency. Support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties for better catalytic performance. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, but excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    