Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical traits like acid strength and morphological characteristics, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C and 24 h TOS). The Ca-promoted catalyst shows a lower deactivation rate (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. This modification slightly increases the activation energy of the PDH reaction, initially reducing activity but improving steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalyst properties for enhanced efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as increasing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. The alloy nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed on the support, with a size of 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl, which deactivates within a day. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity and stability. Zeolite's channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer are critical. Acidic sites determine catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping elucidate Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts' performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact catalytic efficiency. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for CrOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and channel. Active sites' nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Catalyst preparation should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks can enhance catalytic activity. Active sites form in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 yield high alkene selectivity. Controlling proton site strength, using borosilicate zeolites, can improve selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and stability for alkane reactions but face deactivation due to coke formation. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. An optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies, bolstered by advancements in computational methods, aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes. Insights from case studies reveal molecular-level dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu catalysts enhance catalytic efficiency and anti-coking ability, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties are crucial. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates remarkable stability, with minimal deactivation over a month at 600C. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enhancing electron density at Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy optimizes performance, enhancing stability and selectivity in PDH, as evidenced by the exceptional stability of PtGaCaPb/SiO2.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports enhances the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. This is exemplified in decalin ring opening, where cracking reactions are suppressed on Pt-modified catalysts, demonstrating the strategic modification of support properties for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, enhancing stability. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, improve PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modifications, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption in Pt-Zn/Si-Beta indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite surface areas and micropore volumes are high, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably NaCl excess and Pt dispersion, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and reduces acidity. Washing post-calcination enhances activity and stability by redistributing chlorinated Pt compounds. Strategic support modifications, including optimal external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn improve selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite pores boost catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures due to strong PtSn-zeolite framework interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by the adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke formation include geometric separation of active components, creating electron-rich environments, and modifying support properties. Controlling support acidity and using high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke formation. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties to eliminate coke. Adjusting Si/Al ratios and employing mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 improve catalytic stability. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their structure and stability, are promising supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and resistance to deactivation and coking, as confirmed by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. Optimal catalytic efficiency, achieving 97.3% furfuryl alcohol from furfural, is realized with 0.025 M-Na+ ions. Post-synthetic support modification strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, enhancing catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity. Morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as using nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating better resistance against coke, which improves performance in terms of activity and selectivity. The slight increase in activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but ultimately leads to better steady-state performance, demonstrating the effectiveness of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are critical for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites are pivotal, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's suitable SiO2/Al2O3 ratio and acidic sites are essential for CrOx catalysts in PDH. The zeolite's high surface area and defined pores facilitate Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, and different supports affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon adsorbate polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with charge magnitude and ionic radius. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity. Zeolite framework modifications can create CH polarization, benefiting dehydrogenation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. Redox cycles are crucial for CH activation on certain sites. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 exhibits weaker acidity, leading to higher alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites improves alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation. Potassium minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and larger zeolite pore sizes lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. An optimal AlAl distance of around 453 pm in zeolites minimizes overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. The existence of Au atoms in alloys shifts down the d band, weakening CH bond interaction and increasing dissociation barrier height. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability, crucial for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties are pivotal, with geometric and electronic effects playing key roles. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics, using Pb to geometrically block Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, effectively suppresses side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable catalytic system, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, which exhibits outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures without deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support enhances the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, while Pt's presence reduces the strength of acid sites. This interaction, evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppressed cracking reactions, impacts catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors metals like Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Its interaction with Ga2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, while surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, improve PDH catalysis, and C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination, unlike parent H-Beta. Pt introduction creates medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl in MFI-zeolite catalysts boosts stability and Pt dispersion, curbs acidity, and prevents sintering. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, featuring high external surface acid sites and precise calcination temperatures, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, improving dehydrogenation catalysis. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst stability and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Confined Pt particles at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallics in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores significantly enhance catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness to weaken Pt(C-C) bonds, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial for preventing coke and enhancing metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, aiding in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes disperse active phases, reducing coke. Carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The nature of the support is crucial, as it governs mechanical properties and profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity through its interaction with the active phase. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification correlates with acidity and textual properties, achieving high yields in reactions. Post-synthetic strategies, such as creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity, improving water tolerance and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, with morphology affecting diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity negatively affecting the process. For zeolites, Lewis acid sites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. To enhance efficiency, strategies include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Ca addition to Al2O3 reduces acid centers and boosts alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity to 98.5% and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows a deactivation function of 0.05 h^-1 and residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C, compared to 0.22 h^-1 and 0.63 for the non-promoted sample, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The higher activation energy of the PDH reaction for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, leads to better steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 are crucial, with γ-Al2O3 exhibiting more sites than θ-Al2O3, leading to higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 directly correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis method using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, maintaining activity for 20 days, whereas PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition, and propane conversion initially exceeds equilibrium values. The relationship between propane conversion and metal loading suggests that low loadings increase metal dispersion, affecting durability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in CrOx/HZSM-5 catalysts significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH. High-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolite supports, with their unique acidity and structure, enhance catalytic performance. Cr/HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, crucial for activity and stability. Support selection is vital for Cr-based catalysts, with zeolites offering suitable acidity for PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P and Mg modifications can enhance stability and activity by reducing VOx polymerization and dispersing V2O5 crystallites, respectively. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalysis. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. CH activation on OGa+ follows a redox cycle, while OZn2+O activates CH without a protonic intermediate. Unexchanged proton sites in Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 reduce alkene selectivity. Controlling proton site strength, by using borosilicate zeolites, can increase alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity for alkane reactions, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, with potential for lower temperature operation, highlighting the role of metal redox properties in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier based on the Sabatier principle enhances catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies, bolstered by advancements in computational approaches, aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, providing insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms that are challenging to explore experimentally at the molecular level.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits remarkable stability in PDH, with minimal deactivation over a month. Geometric and electronic effects are crucial, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites to optimize electronic properties. This double modification strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalyst that effectively suppresses side reactions, enhancing its lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity modifies the electronic properties of metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt alters support acidity, reducing acid site strength. This interplay, evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions in decalin ring opening, suggests modifying support properties as a strategy to optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, while the Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction enhances PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, boosting long-term PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 affects propane adsorption and activation, impacting coke deposition. Strategic support modifications, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhancing ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH, as studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing MFI-zeolite stability, promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and reducing acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal conditions include high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and specific component introduction order, all improving Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles on catalyst surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, highlighting the importance of strategic support modification for optimized catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Pt interactions with supports like Al2O3, SiO2, and CeO2 influence stability and coke formation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, such as nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and chemical stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates the formation of vanadium species, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, and adding MgO can enhance selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina supports improve vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide, similar to vanadium oxide, can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic supports with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites lead to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxides resist coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites is vital for promoting desired chemical transformations and avoiding undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies involve modifying supports to enhance diffusion efficiency, such as using nanosized supports and specific morphologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating improved resistance to deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. This highlights the importance of Lewis acid sites as active sites for propane conversion and the potential of support modification strategies to optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Silanol nests in zeolites, formed using specific surfactants and silica sources, facilitate the creation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. Supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites, catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, initially exceeding equilibrium propane conversion values. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, highlighting the importance of strategic support modification for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, exhibiting high activity and stability. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5, offer a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations and PDH tests. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, critical for high catalytic activity. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is essential for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, significantly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods, and support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density impact framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon adsorbate polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity compared to transition metals. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting a role for the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and metal center redox properties in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides and hydrides, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The stability of metal oxides is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites lower activation barriers, enhancing catalytic activity. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle, which suggests a structure-to-activity correlation. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with advancements in computational methods enabling deeper insights into complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering molecular-level understanding not easily accessible through experiments. The existence of Au atoms in alloys weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. The lower reactivity on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt. The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability. The ultimate goal is to optimize catalysts for enhanced efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically geometric and electronic effects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, as demonstrated in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, optimizes these effects, achieving ultra-stable PDH performance. This double modification strategy yields exceptional stability, with no deactivation observed for up to 1 month at high temperatures, highlighting its potential for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports and the presence of Pt influence each other, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Increased support acidity boosts Pt properties, while Pt reduces acid site strength, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, enhancing catalytic performance. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction boosts PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, effectively disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 impacts propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, exhibit structural and catalytic stability in PDH reactions. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modifications, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms the formation of Pt-Zn species. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite surface areas and micropore volumes are high, showing preserved microporous structure. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing stability, Pt dispersion, and acidity control in MFI-zeolite catalysts. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds, optimizing Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions improve Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt through Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and confined in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks shows high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable catalysis at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial for preventing undesirable coke and isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation. Strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, and CeO2's redox properties eliminate coke. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including surface area-to-metal loading ratio, reducibility of vanadium species, and support materials like alumina and zirconia, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the presence of MgO, which reduces coke formation, enhance selectivity. Support materials like alumina, zirconia, and silica influence dispersion and stability of the active phase, impacting activity and selectivity. Doping with alkali metals optimizes properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting catalytic efficiency. Support modification strategies, including the post-synthetic method, create stronger Lewis acidic sites, promoting desired chemical transformations and improving water tolerance and reusability, as seen in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and efficiency. Morphological features affect diffusion, while support acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies for support modification aim to optimize these properties, focusing on enhancing diffusion efficiency through developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with particular morphologies and high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably the reduction of acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition to Al2O3, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows superior resistance against deactivation by coke, with a lower deactivation function (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63). The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher for the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), attributed to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification strategies, like Ca addition, optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid site from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3 acts as the active site, with the amount of these sites in γ-Al2O3 correlating positively with propane conversion rates. γ-Al2O3-200, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable catalyst for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the presence of silanol nests in zeolites synthesized using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, confirmed by spectroscopy, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Homogeneously distributed 2 nm nanoparticles contain Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio, as confirmed by EDS analysis. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion initially exceeding equilibrium values. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, including the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. There is an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount, with increased metal dispersion at low loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports, especially HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a critical role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The amount of Cr loading and the SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic efficiency. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability, while Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports is critical for optimizing catalytic performance, with HZSM-5 being a suitable support for CrOx catalysts due to its suitable acidic sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 enhance alkene selectivity by replacing protons. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites lower activation barriers, enhancing catalytic activity. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimizes overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Strategic support modifications, like adding late transition metals or adjusting the AlAl distance, can optimize catalysts for specific chemical processes. The existence of Au atoms in alloys weakens the interaction between CH bond and surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center than pure Pt. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts, and computational advancements enable exploring complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, as seen in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics, with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electron donation to Pt1 sites, optimizes these effects. This strategy creates an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's exceptional stability at 600C for up to 1 month, with minimal deactivation. Tuning Pt's electronic properties further enhances the catalyst's lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, increased acidity of supports enhances the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, affecting pyridine desorption and suppressing cracking reactions, illustrating the strategic interaction between metal and acid sites for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's structural advantages and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic activity. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 enhances Al3+ surface activity in isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior is pivotal in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modifications, like γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta due to Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows small aggregates and close contact between Pt and Zn species, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures. Notably, Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The robustness of Pt-Zn/Si-Beta for PDH is attributed to close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl in MFI-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation enhances stability and improves Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing Pt dispersion and stability involves high external surface acid sites, controlled Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds, while heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt, enhancing selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined in zeolite frameworks or mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong interactions, making them stable at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by propylene adsorption configuration and strength. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlled acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke deposits. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability. Each support's characteristics affect catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric species between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves vanadium catalyst selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Modification strategies, such as alkali-metal ion addition to Zr-Al-Beta zeolites, enhance catalytic performance and selectivity by improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, boosting catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation selectivity. Morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity causing adverse effects. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies, such as nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, significantly enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. DMRA analysis indicates lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, demonstrating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalyst properties for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 are critical, with γ-Al2O3 showing higher activity in propane dehydrogenation due to more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield and regenerability, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as increasing Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy (Quotes 1, 2). These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity (Quote 3). Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Homogeneously distributed nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, contain both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability (Quote 5). Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially (Quote 12). Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. The acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, play a crucial role in determining catalytic performance by increasing propane adsorption and enhancing CH bond activation. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Optimizing Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio is critical for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C enhances Lewis acid sites on VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, stabilizing catalysts and maintaining high activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Optimizing these properties through strategic support modification is essential for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation. Controlling proton site strength, by using weaker acid sites in borosilicate zeolites, can improve alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is critical for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes the negative impact of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature dehydrogenation. Future research should focus on the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and the role of metal center redox properties in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides and hydrides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the distance between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, can minimize overall barriers. The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, weakening the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. The lower reactivity on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking and Ca for electronic enrichment creates an ultra-stable system for dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic effects, leading to enhanced catalytic stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity modifies the electronic properties of Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Pt also affects support acidity, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid sites. Strategic support modification optimizes these properties for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors metal sites and influences activity through its surface properties. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction performance. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets stabilize bimetallic clusters, improving long-term PDH efficiency. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation, demonstrating the importance of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows dual acid sites in H-Beta, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acid sites, and Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals close Pt-Zn contact in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. Silanol group evolution confirms Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR studies the crucial local electronic environment of Pt for PDH. XRD patterns exhibit BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redispersing Pt. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions boost Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while heteroatoms in oxide substrates tightly secure Pt particles. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) form selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable catalysis at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, affecting selectivity and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, enhancing electron richness, and modifying supports. Controlling support acidity, using materials like Al2O3 and CeO2, can prevent coke and improve stability. Supports with high surface area and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 can have high alloying degrees, while CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable in acidic/basic media. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Using silica to dope alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, depending on loading and support, can be optimized for activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Tuning acidity and textural properties, particularly the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions, is crucial for optimal efficiency. Post-synthetic methods create stronger Lewis acidic sites, promoting desired chemical transformations. Support modification strategies, exemplified by Zr-Al-Beta zeolites, optimize catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as seen in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology impacts diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, including developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits a deactivation function of 0.05 h^-1 and a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C, compared to 0.22 h^-1 and 0.63 for the non-promoted sample, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. This enhancement is attributed to the slightly higher activation energy of the PDH reaction due to the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, which initially decreases activity but enhances performance and selectivity at steady state. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3 are critical, with γ-Al2O3 exhibiting more such sites than θ-Al2O3, leading to higher propane conversion rates. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, homogeneously distributed and approximately 2 nm in size, contain both Pt and Y, with an atomic ratio of about 3. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability, while Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for high catalytic performance. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Zeolites' tunable acidity and thermal stability make them versatile for catalytic reactions, but high acidic site amounts in HZSM-5 are detrimental to PDH, highlighting the need for suitable acidity levels.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metal-support interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalyst efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VO-support bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization can be an intermediate step to hydride abstraction, crucial for CH activation. The polarizing effect of cations increases with charge magnitude and ionic radius. Strategic support modification, such as changing framework atoms, can create a CH polarization effect, enhancing catalytic performance. Controlling proton site strength can improve alkene selectivity. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions, while metal promoters like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improve stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by zeolite framework and the effect of Au atoms on increasing the dissociation barrier height, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtCu catalysts enhance anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption. Strategic support modification, like adjusting the AlAl distance in zeolites to 453 pm based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, highlighting the role of catalysts in enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, especially in PDH. A promising design involves double-modifying PtGa intermetallics: Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites as an electron-donating agent. This strategy, as seen in PtGaCaPb/SiO2, yields a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH at 600C for up to 1 month, effectively suppressing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. By increasing support acidity, the strength of acid sites is altered, affecting Pt properties and suppressing cracking reactions, which is critical for reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's stability and ability to anchor metal sites, such as Pt, Ru, and Ga, enhance catalytic performance. γ-Al2O3's coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed metals, while its interaction with Ga2O3 boosts PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, and surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and activation. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer efficient PDH catalysis. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation on Si-Beta. XRD patterns display BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Surface area and micropore volume analyses indicate well-preserved microporous structures. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, NaCl excess enhances catalyst stability, promotes Pt dispersion, and suppresses acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing chlorinated Pt compounds, as evidenced by improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability under optimal conditions featuring high external surface acid sites and water washing techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Unsaturated Al3+ sites in Al2O3 and heteroatoms in oxide substrates anchor Pt, improving stability. Lattice-confined Sn boosts selectivity and stability in Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Strong Pt-framework interactions in zeolites and PtSn confinement in mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite enhance catalytic performance at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties for coke elimination. SiO2 supports weak interactions, forming Pt-based bimetals, while CeO2 traps Pt ions. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke. Carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, influenced by loading, support, and preparation, can be monomers, polymers, or crystallites. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. Alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support with low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance and selectivity by enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, achieving optimal results. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength and stability influence selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. PDH reactions are sensitive to support acidity, crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption, but excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies aim to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency, focusing on improving diffusion by developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    