Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation upon Ca addition, significantly enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63), indicating enhanced resistance to deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, which initially decreases activity but improves performance in terms of both activity and selectivity at steady state conditions. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3 act as active sites, crucial for catalytic activity. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, demonstrates superior performance in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate directly correlates with the number of Lewis acid sites. Notably, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions, achieving high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Developing efficient PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 zeolite remains challenging for high selectivity and stability. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio critically affect catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, where Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are key for propane adsorption and activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation through bimolecular and unimolecular pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 exhibit high alkene selectivity, with CH activation mechanisms differing based on metal. Proton site strength, influenced by framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity and stability for alkane dehydrogenation. Promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Recent findings suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with Lewis base-assisted deprotonation and redox properties playing key roles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance to 453 pm enhances catalytic efficiency, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies provide insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are critical. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates remarkable stability in PDH due to geometric and electronic modifications. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable system that minimally deactivates over 1 month at 600C. This dual modification strategy optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity, suppressing side reactions in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity enhances the electronic properties of Pt, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support. Strategic support modification can optimize this interplay for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's structural advantages and Al3+ sites, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances dispersion of Pt and Ru through unsaturated Al3+ sites. Ga2O3's interaction with Al2O3 allows Ga3+ to disperse in γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's weak and strong acid sites, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acid sites, and their interaction in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy post-metal incorporation. CO adsorption FTIR studies the crucial local electronic environment of Pt for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion, and close Pt-Zn contact enhances PDH catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation, enhances Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and curbs zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, featuring high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, and strategic component introduction, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for catalytic efficiency in dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Small Pt particles confined with Sn in the lattice create a selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores are stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support acidity and textural properties, like surface area and pore size, influence catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation. CeO2 interacts strongly with metals, trapping Pt ions and eliminating coke with water vapor. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites can be detrimental. Silica doping of alumina support enhances stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Using silica to dope the alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. The addition of MgO can improve the performance of supported vanadium catalysts by reducing coke formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The nature of the support is crucial as it not only determines the mechanical properties of the catalyst but also affects the interaction between the carrier and the active phase, which can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. For instance, alumina is the most common support, and the method of producing chromia-alumina catalysts can vary, affecting the catalyst's performance. The choice of support can also influence the catalytic activity, with different supports leading to varying orders of activity based on conversion and yield. Zirconia, as an alternative support, has been investigated for its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites, and mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for their catalytic properties in dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as seen in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials, can also influence catalytic behavior, with strong acid sites affecting cracking reactions and medium strength acid sites impacting dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize the properties of catalysts for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions can effectively poison undesirable acid sites, improving selectivity. Using zirconia as a support can prevent the formation of mixed oxides and offer higher thermal stability and surface area. Silica, with its high surface area, can stabilize Cr6+ sites, while mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors can provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability against sintering. Understanding the role of acidity in catalytic behavior can also guide the modification of supports to favor dehydrogenation reactions over cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Optimal efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies, like creating open Lewis acid sites, further optimize catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, favoring desired reactions and minimizing undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity. Morphological qualities affect diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity negatively affecting the process. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces to enhance diffusion efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance against coke-induced deactivation compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63, respectively). The slightly higher activation energy for the PDH reaction in the promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but ultimately improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3 are critical, with γ-Al2O3 exhibiting more such sites than θ-Al2O3, enhancing propane dehydrogenation activity. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy (Quotes 1, 2). These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity (Quote 3). Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt (Quote 4). The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y, with a 3:1 atomic ratio (Quotes 8, 9, 10, 11). PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability (Quote 5). Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially (Quotes 12, 13). The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition (Quote 14). PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation (Quote 6). Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, exhibiting high activity, selectivity, and stability. Brnsted acid sites in zeolites are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores provide an optimal environment for Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity and thermal stability, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it a preferred support. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are key for propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increases active V3+ species, and improves anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters like P can beneficially affect both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, and different supports can impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic efficiency. Active sites, formed in situ, consist of alkyl carbenium ions held to framework oxygen ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation involves protons and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 exhibit high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier enhances catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides improve coking resistance, while Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interaction, increasing the dissociation barrier height. These insights are crucial for enhancing catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts, using Pb to geometrically block Pt3 sites and Ca to electronically enrich Pt1 sites, synergizes these effects. This double modification results in ultra-stable catalytic systems with enhanced stability and side reaction suppression, achieving outstanding PDH performance for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's exceptional stability and lack of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of metals like Pt in dehydrogenation reactions, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Pt presence reduces acid site strength, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid sites, as seen in the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, enhancing PDH reaction activity and stability through Ga2O3 interaction. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 affects propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking structural and catalytic stabilities against impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalysts. The desorption behavior of C3H6 in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is crucial. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. CO adsorption FTIR spectra highlight the local electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns display BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Surface areas and micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction, making strategic support modification a viable optimization strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are crucial; excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and acidity. Washing post-calcination enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high surface acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, and washing, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions boost Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) stabilize Pt, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores exhibit high performance and stability at high temperatures due to strong support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt atom coordination affects propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while surface structures govern coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li and Na can poison strong acid sites, reducing coke on Al2O3. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase, while Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates the formation of Pt-based bimetals. CeO2's strong interaction with metal particles traps Pt ions and, with water vapor, eliminates coke deposition due to its redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke and improving stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their properties, are also used as supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, and MgO addition can improve selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic efficiency by enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. Support modification strategies, including post-synthetic methods, optimize these properties for better catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption, but excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, including the development of nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. DMRA analysis shows that Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to non-promoted samples (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63), indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Lewis acid sites, originating from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions, with γ-Al2O3 exhibiting more such sites than θ-Al2O3, enhancing its activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield, initial conversion of 48%, and selectivity of 83%. Its regenerability in propane dehydrogenation reactions, confirmed by reversible deactivation, makes it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for improved catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the presence of silanol nests in zeolites synthesized using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, confirmed by spectroscopy, exhibit fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption and high catalytic durability, achieving 20 days of operation with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. The formation of intermetallic compounds within silanol nests is crucial for maintaining high conversion rates, even exceeding equilibrium values initially. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in terms of durability. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolites provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact catalytic efficiency. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, and their selection is critical for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing catalyst stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize catalyst properties for enhanced efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods, and developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for future dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation (1). PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence (2). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the nature and density of active sites (3). Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction (5). Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, crucial for CH activation. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is critical for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Promotion of Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Surface oxygen species play a significant role in catalysis, with potassium minimizing the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of pore size on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the distance between active sites, such as AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms at the molecular level, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. Strategic support modification, such as decorating the surface of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb to block Pt3 sites and depositing Ca around the nanoparticles to enrich Pt1 sites, results in exceptional stability. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C for up to 1 month, showcasing the effectiveness of double modification in enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This interaction is reciprocal, with Pt also affecting support acidity, as observed through changes in pyridine desorption and reduced acid site strength. These findings suggest strategic support modification as a viable approach to optimize catalyst properties for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, enhances catalytic performance through structural stability and Al3+ sites anchoring Pt and Ru. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Al2O3 without hydroxyl groups activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior is pivotal in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta indicating Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows small aggregates and close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH, as studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, improves Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved under conditions of high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchoring atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles tightly anchor on oxide substrate heteroatoms, while lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement, optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by propylene adsorption configuration and strength. Strategies to inhibit coke formation include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Alkaline metals can poison acid sites, preventing coke on Al2O3 surfaces. Doped Mg in Al2O3 forms stable phases, and Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms enhance stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetal formation, while CeO2's strong interaction traps Pt ions and redox properties aid in coke elimination. Supports with adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas prevent coke deposits, improving stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their properties, are also effective supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic support modification strategies optimize catalytic properties by tuning acidic sites, promoting desired reactions while avoiding undesired pathways. An example is the preparation of Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, which exhibits superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, with morphology impacting diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, avoiding CC cracking. Support modification strategies, including nanosized supports and specific morphologies, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers and boosts alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600°C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating improved resistance to deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is marginally higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Strategic support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the physicochemical properties of catalysts, particularly the Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, play a crucial role. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high density of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation, where conversion rates are directly proportional to the number of Lewis acid sites. This catalyst's regenerability, allowing recovery from deactivation, makes it a sustainable choice for industrial applications, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtY alloy nanoparticles, synthesized using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity when supported by zeolites with silanol nests. These alloys show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintaining high performance over 20 days. Catalysts with silanol nests have an activation period to reach full conversion, initially exceeding equilibrium propane conversion values. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition, indicating deactivation mechanisms. Strategic support modification optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity, with an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount observed upon full catalyst activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 exhibits high activity and stability for PDH, highlighting the crucial role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in enhancing catalytic performance. Zeolites, particularly HZSM-5, provide a special environment for catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. The selection of supports is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, as Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 ensure dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, guaranteeing high activity and stability. Strategies for optimizing catalytic performance include adjusting Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio, understanding reactant/product interactions, and leveraging the unique properties of zeolite supports.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing with the amount of acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion interactions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing protons. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile noble metal catalyst for alkanes, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity than cheaper alternatives. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation, while Lewis base-assisted deprotonation explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and redox properties as future research directions for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties like metal oxides' stability, influenced by the zeolite framework, and zeolite pore size, affecting catalytic activity, are critical. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally. Strategies like adding promoters can enhance robustness against coking, while the existence of certain atoms can shift the d band of alloys, affecting the interaction with reactants and altering the dehydrogenation barrier. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the zeolite framework, and the weak binding of intermediates on specific sites favors the desorption of H2. Computational studies are increasingly sophisticated, allowing for the exploration of more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. Optimizing these through the double modification of PtGa with Pb and Ca creates an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability, as evidenced by negligible deactivation over 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing its catalytic performance as acidity increases. Conversely, Pt's presence weakens acid site strength, beneficially suppressing cracking reactions during decalin ring opening, which may improve catalytic efficiency and selectivity in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support in heterogeneous catalysis, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites for anchoring Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction boosts PDH activity and stability, while γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites disperse and stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Al2O3's structure, especially surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites, affects propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, demonstrate efficient PDH catalysis. Strategic support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals weak and strong sites in H-Beta, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acidity, and Pt-Zn interaction in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. FTIR spectra of CO adsorption elucidates Pt's local electronic environment, crucial for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity drop post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction enhance PDH catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites and specific Na/Pt ratios, improve Pt dispersion and stability, crucial for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al3+ penta sites on Al2O3 form stabilizing bonds with atomically dispersed Pt. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates anchor Pt particles tightly. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high catalytic performance due to strong interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility inhibition are critical. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 enhance stability and redox properties, respectively. SiO2 supports allow for Pt-based bimetals formation. Mesoporous materials, MXenes, and carbon materials offer active sites and anti-coking properties. Each support's characteristics affect catalytic selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Optimal efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, affecting acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic methods create stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and stability, significantly impact selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity negatively affecting the process. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers and enhances alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability (Quote 2). The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating improved coke resistance (Quotes 4 and 5). The higher activation energy for the PDH reaction in the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance (Quote 6). Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including acid strength, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, sourced from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is pivotal for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, demonstrates superior activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 directly correlates with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. Notably, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, showing the highest yield, exhibits reversible deactivation, making it regenerable and suitable for industrial applications. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopies, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst shows 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. The conversion-vs-loading relationship indicates that low loadings increase metal dispersion, but lower durability may result from the increased fraction of the zeolite support.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Zeolites, particularly HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for catalysis, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance the dispersion and stability of Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, significantly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increasing active V3+ species and improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, affecting catalyst performance with different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 yield high alkene selectivity. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites than aluminosilicates, potentially improving selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Metal promotion of Pt improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH), the geometric and electronic properties of catalysts significantly impact performance. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donor to enrich Pt1 sites enhances stability and selectivity. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic effects, creating an ultra-stable system for PDH, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures, with almost no deactivation observed.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, affecting acid site strength and enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity, especially in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, while Pt presence reduces acid site strength, as shown by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening, demonstrating the strategic importance of support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support in heterogeneous catalysis, enhances performance through its stability and structural advantages. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, demonstrating structural and catalytic stability. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta is a robust PDH catalyst due to close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction, as confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. XRD patterns exhibit BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. All samples show high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating well-preserved structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl in MFI-zeolite catalysts boosts stability and Pt dispersion, while suppressing zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized performance is achieved through high external surface acid sites, controlled Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and strategic component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes Pt particles, yielding selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite pores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit distinct interactions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, impacting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification boosts catalytic efficiency and selectivity, as shown by enhanced resistance to deactivation and coking. Zr-Al-Beta zeolite, with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, exemplifies superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion, highlighting the effectiveness of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity, with morphology affecting diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as using nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and enhances alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model reveals lower deactivation and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating improved resistance against coke. This modification slightly increases PDH activation energy due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy that initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Thus, support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring high levels of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. This highlights the role of Lewis acid sites as active sites for propane conversion and the potential for support modification strategies to optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably silanol nests confirmed by spectroscopy, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, with reversible hydrogen chemisorption, display high durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles, homogeneously distributed at 2 nm in size, contain Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH exhibit superior durability to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg. An activation period precedes full conversion, with initial propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, involving diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading highlights the importance of metal dispersion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 exhibits high PDH activity and stability. Acidic sites in zeolites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for alkane conversion. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic performance. Zeolites, with high surface area and tunable acidity, serve as effective supports. However, excessive acidic sites in HZSM-5 can be detrimental to PDH. Suitable acidic sites make HZSM-5 a good support for CrOx catalysts. Strategic support modification, focusing on Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, is essential for optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies, such as varying crystallization temperatures, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, higher crystallization temperatures increase Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the density of active sites. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with the charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects alkene selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer higher selectivity due to weaker proton sites. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity and stability, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, or Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Copper-aluminum framework materials show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a role for surface oxygen species and a redox mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the slight enhancement of catalytic activity by larger pore sizes in zeolites, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance of around 453 pm in zeolites minimizes overall barriers, in line with the Sabatier principle. Advancements in computational methods have enabled theoretical studies to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, offering insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms that are challenging to explore experimentally. The lattice mismatch between the particle and support introduces complexity, affecting the potential energy surfaces and limiting studies to understanding one aspect of the catalyst rather than the complete picture of dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in the geometric and electronic effects observed in PDH. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability at 600C with negligible deactivation over a month. This is achieved through Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. The double modification strategy optimizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalyst that maximizes the ensemble effect and enhances electronic properties for increased lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The presence of Pt also affects the strength of acid sites on the support, influencing reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Optimizing catalytic performance can be achieved through strategic modification of the interplay between metal and support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, enhances catalytic performance through its stability and structure. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, and surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Strategic support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's weak and strong acid sites, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acid sites, and their interaction in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy. CO adsorption FTIR spectra highlight Pt's local electronic environment's importance for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion, and close Pt-Zn contact with electronic interaction makes Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing MFI-zeolite stability, promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and reducing acidity. Washing post-calcination redistributes water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds, boosting activity and stability. Optimal conditions include high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios of 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, and water washing, all contributing to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enhance catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt atom coordination affects selectivity, with saturated atoms favoring propane dehydrogenation and unsaturated atoms promoting side reactions. Surface structures govern coke formation, with specific reaction ensembles and support properties playing crucial roles. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance and inhibit coke formation include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are critical; controlling acidity prevents undesirable coke and isomerization, while high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit unique properties, with CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminating coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support impacts catalytic properties, affecting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves vanadium catalysts' dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is comparable to vanadium oxide, with species dependent on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance by enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, such as the post-synthetic method, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids unwanted reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity. Morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to negative effects. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and boosts alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600°C compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63). This enhanced resistance against coke deactivation leads to superior steady-state performance. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is marginally higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to improved GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances overall efficiency and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic properties for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is crucial. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. Notably, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Strategies to enhance the number of Lewis acid sites and control crystalline structure can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. The Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, homogeneously distributed and approximately 2 nm in size, contain both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio, and the PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibited slow deactivation over 20 days.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Developing efficient PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for reactions, with Brnsted acid sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Physicochemical analysis, PDH tests, and Na+ doping reveal the importance of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. High reaction temperatures cause coke formation, leading to catalyst deactivation. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is crucial, with zeolites' high surface area and tunable acidity making them ideal. HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites is optimal for CrOx catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increasing active V3+ species and improving anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and VOx/ZrO2 are promising due to their high surface area and ability to produce active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, including the use of ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid secondary reactions. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, as metalsupport interactions affect performance. Catalyst activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, and different supports can impact performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the density of active sites. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while metal promoters like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improve stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes the negative impact of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and larger pore sizes that lower activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal active site distances, like AlAl in zeolites, minimize overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by computational advancements. Case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms in complex systems, offering insights unattainable by experimental methods. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include the use of additional promoters and understanding the effects of alloy composition on reaction barriers.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, notably in PDH. The double modification of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites, as exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, results in an ultra-stable catalytic system. This strategy showcases outstanding stability in PDH at 600C for up to 1 month, with negligible deactivation observed.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt catalyst properties are enhanced by increased support acidity, which in turn reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and reduced cracking reactions, offers a promising approach to optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, anchors Pt and Ru sites due to its unsaturated Al3+ sites, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction boosts PDH activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts benchmark structural and catalytic stability. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as per NH3-TPD, reveals Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination, while Pt and Zn introduce medium and Lewis acid sites, respectively. Pt-Zn interaction boosts ammonia desorption intensity. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are critical. Excess NaCl enhances stability by promoting Pt dispersion and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity through the redispersion of water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimal performance is achieved with high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination at 400-500°C, and strategic component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Sn-zeolite framework confinement boosts catalytic performance, and PtSn particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, enhancing propane dehydrogenation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and prevent coke. Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, with CeO2's redox properties aiding in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic selectivity and stability uniquely.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including surface area-to-metal loading ratio, reducibility of vanadium species, and support type, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Monomeric vanadium species form below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. VOV and VO bonds are more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance and selectivity by adjusting acid sites, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. Post-synthetic methods create stronger Lewis acidic sites, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength affects selectivity, with proper acidity crucial for PDH reactions, while excessive acidity can lead to negative effects. Morphology influences diffusion efficiency, with nanosized supports and specific morphologies enhancing catalytic efficiency. Support modification strategies, including optimizing acidity and morphology, are essential for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    