Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating enhanced resistance to coke-induced deactivation. This modification slightly raises the activation energy of the PDH reaction, initially decreasing activity but improving steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalyst properties for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis method using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. The alloy nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed on the support, with a size of 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl, which deactivates within a day. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's channel confinement effects, acidic sites, and electron transfer are crucial. Acidic sites determine catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts' performance is elucidated through physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance. Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic efficiency. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for CrOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and channel. Active sites' nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance CH bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Catalyst preparation should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks can enhance catalytic activity. Active sites form in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 yield high alkene selectivity. Controlling proton site strength, using borosilicate zeolites, can improve selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and stability for alkane reactions but face deactivation due to coke formation. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation over a month at 600C. The geometric and electronic effects are critical, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching electron density at Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy optimizes the catalyst's performance, enhancing stability and selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites. This interplay can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity, impacting reactions like decalin ring opening, where cracking reactions are suppressed on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances stability and anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, improve PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modifications, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite surface areas and micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, are high and large, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including NaCl excess and Pt dispersion, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal conditions for Pt dispersion and stability include high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt particles, improving selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite boost catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures, attributed to the strong interaction between PtSn particles and the zeolite framework.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, and support modifications. Controlling support acidity and using high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties to eliminate coke. Si/Al ratios and mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 improve catalytic stability. MXenes and carbon materials, due to their structure and stability, are promising supports. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and resistance to deactivation and coking. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, yielding 97.3% furfuryl alcohol from furfural. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance against coke, which improves performance in terms of activity and selectivity. The slight increase in activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but ultimately leads to better steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are critical for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, containing both Pt and Y. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 is crucial for catalytic performance, as they enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation. The selection of HZSM-5 zeolite with a suitable SiO2/Al2O3 ratio and acidic sites is key for CrOx catalysts in PDH. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. The challenge remains in achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, and different supports affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon adsorbate polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with charge magnitude and ionic radius. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity. Zeolite framework modifications can create CH polarization, benefiting dehydrogenation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion. Redox cycles are crucial for CH activation on certain sites. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 exhibits weaker acidity, leading to higher alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites improves alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Promotion with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation. Potassium minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. A copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites lower activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimizes overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with advancements in computational approaches enabling exploration of complex catalytic systems. The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, weakening CH bond interaction and increasing dissociation barrier height. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent enriches Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable catalytic system with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support influences the electronic properties of supported metals, such as Pt, and the presence of metals affects the acidic properties of supports. Specifically, the electronic properties of Pt are enhanced with increasing support acidity, while the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support. This interaction is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, potentially impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic performance through its structural stability and ability to anchor metals like Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, improve PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl enhances stability and Pt dispersion in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, suppressing acidity and preventing sintering. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and calcination temperatures, improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability for propane dehydrogenation. Confined Pt particles at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks and PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores improve propane dehydrogenation catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness to weaken Pt(C-C) bonds, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, aiding in coke elimination. Mesoporous materials and MXenes disperse active phases, reducing coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface area and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. The type of support and preparation conditions affect molybdenum oxide species formation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. Prior to reaction, vanadium is generally V5+, but reduction by the hydrocarbon feed results in V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by reactant adsorption and coke deposition. Calcination can remove coke but may further deactivate the catalyst due to the formation of larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species under certain conditions. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Using silica to dope the alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. The addition of MgO can improve the performance of supported vanadium catalysts by reducing coke formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textual properties, achieving a 97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol at 99.6% conversion of furfural. Post-synthetic strategies, like forming open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether, with improved water tolerance and reusability. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to negative impacts. For zeolites, Lewis acid sites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to enhance efficiency include developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. This is attributed to the higher activation energy of the PDH reaction due to enhanced GeOx reduction, leading to Pt-Ge alloy formation and better steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 correlates positively with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintains activity for 20 days, whereas PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidity playing a key role in catalytic performance. Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts, characterized by N2 sorption, XRD, NH3-TPD, and XPS, reveal the importance of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites for high performance. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability. Support selection is crucial for Cr-based catalysts, with zeolites offering suitable acidity for PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P and Mg modifications can enhance stability and activity by reducing VOx polymerization and dispersing V2O5 crystallites, respectively. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr catalysts, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is essential for vanadium-based catalysts, as the metalsupport interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalysis. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. CH activation on OGa+ follows a redox cycle, while OZn2+O activates CH without a protonic intermediate. Unexchanged proton sites in Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 reduce alkene selectivity. Controlling proton site strength, by using borosilicate zeolites, can increase alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity for alkane reactions, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, with potential for lower temperature operation, highlighting the role of metal redox properties in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier based on the Sabatier principle enhances catalytic efficiency. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies provide insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month. The geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, enhancing electronic properties. This double modification strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalyst that suppresses side reactions, thus increasing its lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Conversely, the presence of Pt alters the acidic properties of supports, reducing acid site strength. This interplay, observed through pyridine desorption changes and suppression of cracking reactions in decalin ring opening, suggests strategies for optimizing catalytic performance by modifying support properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites due to its structural stability. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation, affecting coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP catalysts. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modifications, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite samples have high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as chemical qualities and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability in propane dehydrogenation, promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. High external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures of 400-500°C, water washing, and component introduction order improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on catalyst surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Pt interactions with supports like Al2O3, SiO2, and CeO2 influence stability and coke formation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, such as nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and chemical stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates the formation of vanadium species, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, and adding MgO can enhance selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina supports improve vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide, similar to vanadium oxide, can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic supports with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites lead to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxides resist coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on acid sites in Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration influence catalytic efficiency, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Support modification strategies, like the post-synthetic method, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites is essential for promoting desired chemical transformations and avoiding undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper support acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance involve modifying supports to enhance diffusion efficiency, such as using nanosized supports and specific morphologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating enhanced resistance to deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to improved GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates positively with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and a sodium-free silica source in synthesis leads to the formation of silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the creation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites, the catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are key to catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. High surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for high catalytic activity. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, significantly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods, and support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density impact framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon adsorbate polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity compared to transition metals. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting a role for the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and metal center redox properties in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides and hydrides, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Zeolite framework stability affects metal oxide clusters, and larger pore sizes in zeolites lower activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling deeper insights into complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering molecular-level understanding not easily accessible through experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, as seen in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable PDH catalyst. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy yields a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, with no deactivation observed for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and the presence of Pt can alter the acidity of the support. Increased support acidity enhances Pt properties, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites due to its structural stability. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, effectively disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a hydrothermal method, demonstrate structural and catalytic stability in PDH reactions. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Zeolite surface areas and micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, are high, showing preserved microporous structure. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable catalysis at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents undesirable coke and isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation. Strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, and CeO2's redox properties eliminate coke. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke and improving stability. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials offer large surface areas and stability, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species and the presence of MgO, which reduces coke formation, enhance selectivity. Support materials like alumina, zirconia, and silica influence dispersion and stability of the active phase, impacting activity and selectivity. Doping with alkali metals optimizes properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, with Mo present as monomers, polymers, or crystallites. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. The study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been informative regarding the influence of acidity on catalytic behavior. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of different vanadium species. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are important for anchoring vanadium precursors. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. The addition of MgO improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites. Hydrogen reduction of molybdenum oxide catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane. The study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been informative regarding the influence of acidity on catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on acid sites in Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration influence catalytic efficiency, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Support modification strategies, such as the post-synthetic method, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidic properties, promoting chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways. This leads to superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in reactions like the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and efficiency. Morphological features affect diffusion. Support acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies summarized in Table 3 aim to optimize these properties, focusing on enhancing diffusion efficiency through support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits a lower deactivation function (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h-1 and 0.63), indicating better resistance against deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher for the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification strategies, like Ca addition, optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, acts as the active site for the catalytic cycle. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 positively correlates with propane conversion rates, highlighting their role in propane dehydrogenation. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source leading to silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Homogeneously distributed 2 nm nanoparticles contain Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, including the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a critical role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic efficiency. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports is critical for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 enhance alkene selectivity by replacing protons. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher alkene selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites lower activation barriers, enhancing catalytic activity. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, around 453 pm, minimizes overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Strategic support modifications, like adding late transition metals or adjusting the AlAl distance, can optimize catalysts for specific chemical processes. The existence of Au atoms in alloys weakens the interaction between CH bond and surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center than pure Pt. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts, and computational advancements enable exploring complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects, as seen in PDH, are critical. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electron donation to Pt1 sites, optimizes these effects. This strategy creates an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding stability at 600C for up to 1 month, with minimal deactivation. Tuning Pt's electronic properties further enhances the catalyst's lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting pyridine desorption and suppressing cracking reactions during decalin ring opening. These interactions between metal and acid sites can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Al2O3's structural advantages and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, while Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 boosts Al3+ surface activity in isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modifications, like γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta with enhanced ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy reveals small aggregates and close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, measured by argon adsorption, suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts and enhances Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized Pt dispersion and stability are achieved through high external surface acid sites, controlled Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt particles, improving selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined in zeolite frameworks or mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong interactions, making them stable at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlled acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms for stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke deposits. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability. Each support's characteristics affect catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric species between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves vanadium catalyst selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is similar to vanadium oxide, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance and selectivity, evidenced by improved resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways, such as dehydration and polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity leading to negative outcomes. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies summarized in Table 3, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. DMRA analysis reveals lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalyst properties for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The Lewis acid sites correlate positively with propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Homogeneously distributed nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, contain both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are crucial for catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability, while Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The selection of supports and optimization of Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio are critical for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C enhances Lewis acid sites on VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, stabilizing catalysts and maintaining high activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Optimizing these properties through strategic support modification is essential for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation. Controlling proton site strength, by using weaker acid sites in borosilicate zeolites, can improve alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is critical for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes the negative impact of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature dehydrogenation. Future research should focus on the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and the role of metal center redox properties in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' and hydrides' stability influenced by zeolite framework, and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the distance between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, can minimize overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites, creates an ultra-stable system. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic effects, leading to enhanced catalytic stability and selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, and the presence of Pt can alter the acidity of the support. Increased support acidity enhances Pt properties, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, impacting reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors metal sites and influences activity through its surface properties. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction performance. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets stabilize bimetallic clusters, improving long-term PDH efficiency. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta's dual weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction creates trace medium acid sites, and Zn introduces Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Silanol group evolution, monitored by infrared spectroscopy, confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, indicate well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal; excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite stability and promotes Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and reducing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability through Pt redispersion. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high propane dehydrogenation performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable catalysis at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, with Pt atom coordination affecting selectivity and surface structures governing coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Controlling support acidity and using materials like Al2O3 and CeO2 can prevent coke and improve stability. Supports with high surface area and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable phase. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 can have high alloying degrees, while CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable in acidic/basic media. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Using silica to dope alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, depending on loading and support, can be optimized for activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved by tuning acidity and textural properties, with the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions playing a crucial role. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways. Support modification strategies, such as the preparation of Zr-Al-Beta zeolites, optimize catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in reactions like the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Support modification strategies optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. This enhancement is attributed to the slightly higher activation energy of the PDH reaction, due to the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, which initially decreases activity but enhances performance and selectivity at steady state. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting the highest yield, is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The synthesis using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, homogeneously distributed and approximately 2 nm in size, contain both Pt and Y, with an atomic ratio of about 3. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability, while Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Zeolites' tunable acidity and thermal stability make them versatile for catalytic reactions. High acidic site amounts in HZSM-5 are detrimental to PDH, emphasizing the need for suitable acidity levels.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalyst efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation (Quote 1). PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials (Quote 2). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density (Quote 3, Quote 4). Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation (Quote 5). Polarization can be an intermediate step to hydride abstraction, crucial for CH activation. The polarizing effect of cations increases with charge magnitude and ionic radius. Strategic support modification, such as changing framework atoms, can create a CH polarization effect, enhancing catalytic performance. Controlling proton site strength can improve alkene selectivity. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions, while metal promoters like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improve stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Future research should focus on non-oxidative dehydrogenation mechanisms, such as the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation, for achieving lower alkane dehydrogenation temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex systems. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, highlighting the role of Au atoms in increasing dissociation barrier height and PtCu in enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are pivotal, especially in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). A promising design concept involves double-modifying PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, enhancing stability and suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with outstanding stability in PDH for up to 1 month at 600C, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of supported metals, like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, affecting the strength of acid sites and suppressing cracking reactions, crucial for reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its stability and ability to anchor metal sites. γ-Al2O3's coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, while its interaction with Ga2O3 allows Ga3+ dispersion, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and activation. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The presence of Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation on Si-Beta. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Surface area and micropore volume analyses indicate well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties, including NaCl excess for stability, Pt dispersion enhancement, and acidity suppression, are crucial. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal conditions for Pt dispersion and catalyst stability include high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, and water washing, as evidenced by the role of NaCl and washing techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn, producing selective and stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Confined Pt particles at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable catalysis at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility inhibition are crucial. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties for coke elimination. SiO2 supports weak interactions, forming Pt-based bimetals, while CeO2 traps Pt ions. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke. Carbon materials offer large surface area and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, influenced by loading, support, and preparation, can be monomers, polymers, or crystallites. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. Alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support with low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance and selectivity by improving resistance to deactivation and coking. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration influence catalytic efficiency, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Optimal results (97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol) are achieved with 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta, showing high tolerance to furfural concentration. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways like dehydration, polymerization, and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength and stability affect selectivity, while morphology impacts diffusion efficiency. PDH reactions are sensitive to support acidity, crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption, but excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, summarized in Table 3, aim to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to improve diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    