Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst efficiency in dehydrogenation reactions is optimized through Ca addition, which reduces acid centers and boosts alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1 vs. 0.22 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance against coke. Despite an initial decrease in activity due to increased activation energy, the promoted catalyst shows better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, enhances propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, exhibiting high yield and regenerability, is optimal for industrial propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies can increase active sites and improve catalyst stability for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the presence of silanol nests confirmed by spectroscopy, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, synthesized using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, exhibit high durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount, with increased metal dispersion at low loadings. The relatively low durability at low catalyst loading is due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support in the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions, showing high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolite's acidic sites, crucial for alkane conversion, are enhanced by Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, as elucidated by physicochemical analysis and PDH tests. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance, with Brnsted acid sites increasing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for CrOx catalysts, with Brnsted acid sites pivotal for propane adsorption and activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation through two pathways. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites improving selectivity over aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity and stability for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions, while metal promotion improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes the impact of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and the slight enhancement of catalytic activity by larger zeolite pore sizes, play a critical role in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances around 453 pm minimize overall barriers, adhering to the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms from case studies provide molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, the double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking and Ca for electronic enrichment optimizes catalytic performance. This strategy, by isolating Pt atoms and creating electron-enriched Pt1 sites, suppresses side reactions and enhances stability. As a result, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, showcasing the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic promotion for ultra-stable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of the support influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, altering their characteristics. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of the support's acid sites, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification is essential for optimized catalytic performance, as demonstrated by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, while the Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation, and surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, including the use of γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Surface area and micropore volume analyses show well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties significantly influence performance. Excess NaCl stabilizes propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, enhances Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates zeolite acidity, as evidenced by its role in promoting Pt dispersion and suppressing acidity (Quote 2). Washing post-calcination increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds (Quote 3). Optimized conditions, featuring high external surface acid sites, Na/Pt atomic ratios around 4070, calcination at 400-500°C, water washing, and specific component introduction order, notably improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, improving catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) boosts Pt-Sn catalyst selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. PtSn particles confined in zeolite frameworks and mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 significantly enhance catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. To optimize catalytic performance, strategies include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlling acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties beneficial for dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and prevent coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and chemical stability. Each support type uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including surface area-to-metal loading ratio, reducibility of vanadium species, and acidity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species influences performance, with MgO addition improving selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Strategic support modification, such as alkali-metal ion treatment on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites, boosts catalytic performance by enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification optimizes acidity and textural properties, improving efficiency and selectivity. Post-synthetic strategies create stronger Lewis acid sites, promoting desired chemical transformations. An example is the preparation of Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, which exhibits superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion, highlighting the importance of tunable acid properties for targeted reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, with morphology influencing diffusion efficiency. Support modification, including the development of nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces, optimizes these properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Zeolites prefer Lewis acid sites for propane dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of acid site type in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical qualities and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers and boosts alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, compared to the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63), indicating superior resistance to deactivation by coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is marginally higher for the Ca-promoted catalyst due to enhanced GeOx reduction, leading to Pt-Ge alloy formation and decreased initial activity. However, this results in superior performance in terms of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from Al2O3's unsaturated AlIII sites are critical. γ-Al2O3, particularly the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, outperforms θ-Al2O3 due to a higher density of Lewis acid sites, achieving the highest propane conversion and selectivity. This catalyst's regenerability makes it sustainable for industrial use. The amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 directly correlates with propane conversion, highlighting their role as active sites in dehydrogenation. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. When supported with 0.50 wt% Pt and 0.50 wt% Y, the zeolite achieved a long catalytic lifetime of 20 days with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. The propane conversion was somewhat higher than the equilibrium value during the early reaction period.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Acidic sites, particularly Brnsted acids in HZSM-5, are pivotal for catalytic performance, enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are responsible for high catalytic efficiency. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an optimal environment for Cr dispersion, ensuring stability and activity. Support selection is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with zeolites offering high surface area, tunable acidity, and thermal stability. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for its role as a support in CrOx catalysts for PDH, as they increase propane adsorption and enhance CH bond activation, directly impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Crystallization temperature affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing VOx catalysts. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalysis. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Oxidative addition requires a redox cycle at the metal center. Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 with unexchanged proton sites shows lower alkene selectivity. Controlling proton site strength, such as using borosilicate zeolites, can improve selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and stability for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and optimal distances between active sites like AlAl, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Larger zeolite pore sizes slightly enhance catalytic activity. Promoters such as late transition metals and Au atoms can increase robustness against coking and shift the d band of alloys, affecting dehydrogenation barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling deeper insights into complex catalytic systems. Case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, especially in PDH. The strategic decoration of PtGa with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb geometrically modifies the surface by blocking Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2. Tuning the electronic properties of Pt can significantly increase the lifetime of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity boosts Pt properties, while Pt presence weakens acid site strength, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites, enhances Ga3+ dispersion in γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3 for improved PDH activity, and stabilizes bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters on γ-Al2O3 nanosheets for enhanced long-term PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, while surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta's weak and strong acid sites, with Si-Beta lacking acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, while Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite surface areas and micropore volumes are high, indicating preserved microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal. Excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability, Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and curbs acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing conditions like high external acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order further improves Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability, as seen with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchoring atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles tightly anchor on oxide substrate heteroatoms, enhancing stability. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by propylene adsorption configuration and strength. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, and support modifications like acidity control and use of materials such as Al2O3 and CeO2. Supports with high surface area and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion, while alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites, preventing coke. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation help eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and 2D carbides like MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are stable and inert supports. Each support's characteristics affect catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Support type and preparation conditions affect molybdenum oxide species formation. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Optimal efficiency is achieved with specific ion types and concentrations, affecting acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies create stronger Lewis acidic sites, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphological features, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites favor cleavage reactions. Support modification strategies aim to optimize these properties, focusing on enhancing diffusion efficiency through the use of nanosized supports and those with specific morphologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers and boosts alloy formation, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) at 600 C, improving steady-state performance. The activation energy for PDH is marginally higher in Ca-promoted catalysts (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances overall efficiency and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic properties for better performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, demonstrates superior activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, showing the highest yield, is regenerable and thus sustainable for industrial use. Propane conversion rates correlate positively with the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, highlighting their role as active sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, maintaining activity for 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. TGA analysis reveals 37 wt% coke deposition on spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br. Catalyst loading inversely affects propane conversion, with lower loadings showing higher dispersion and smaller particle size. Support modification strategies, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports, notably HZSM-5, offer a unique environment for reactions, with Brnsted acid sites playing a critical role in alkane conversion and propane adsorption. Physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments reveal that Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal supports for PDH catalysts, and the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are essential for propane activation and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategies like using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, and incorporating promoting elements for beneficial geometric and electronic effects, can enhance catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation (Quote 1). PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material (Quote 2). Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and the nature of active sites (Quote 3). Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding in CH activation. Polarization increases with the charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion interactions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 achieve high alkene selectivity by replacing exchangeable protons. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering high activity and stability, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers plays a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, suggesting a future research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Larger pore sizes in zeolites lower activation barriers, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Optimizing the distance between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, to a minimum overall barrier based on the Sabatier principle is crucial. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides, increase robustness against coking. The existence of Au atoms shifts the d band of alloys, affecting the dissociation barrier height. These insights highlight the complex interplay of factors in dehydrogenation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties are critical. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking and Ca for electronic enrichment optimizes the catalyst's geometric and electronic effects. This strategy, as seen in PtGaCaPb/SiO2, results in an ultra-stable system with minimal deactivation over 1 month at 600C, demonstrating the importance of electronic properties in enhancing catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, Pt catalyst properties are significantly influenced by the acidity of the support, with increased acidity altering Pt characteristics. Conversely, Pt presence reduces support acid site strength, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is demonstrated by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the interplay between metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals dual acid sites in H-Beta, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acidity, and their interaction, evidenced by enhanced NH3 desorption, is pivotal. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as sub-100nm aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact, confirmed by infrared spectroscopy post-metal incorporation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's electronic environment's significance for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology preservation, and high surface areas, micropore volumes suggest intact structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH stems from species proximity and electronic interaction, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability, Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and curbs acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and stability are achieved under high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, water washing, and precise component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles tightly bind to oxide substrate heteroatoms. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores act as stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke formation include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports disperse metal particles. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and prevent coke. Pt interactions with supports like SiO2 and CeO2 influence catalyst stability and coke formation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, such as nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable supports. Each support affects catalytic selectivity and stability, altering the component, morphology, and distribution of metal particles, and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Reducibility of vanadium species influences performance. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, with high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites, is active in dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide resists coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. The nature of the support is crucial for mechanical properties and interaction with the active phase, impacting activity and selectivity. Alumina is the most common support, with various methods to produce chromia-alumina catalysts. Zirconia, as an alternative, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, affects catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and minimizing coke formation. Strategic support modification, including the preparation of Zr-Al-Beta zeolites, yields superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with enhanced Lewis acidity, promoting desired reactions and curtailing dehydration and isomerization, thus optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Strategic support modification, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies with high external surfaces, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 at 600 C), indicating better resistance to coke formation. This improves performance in terms of both activity and selectivity at steady state conditions, demonstrating the effectiveness of Ca addition in optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid site, derived from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is crucial for catalytic activity. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, demonstrates enhanced propane conversion rates, directly proportional to the number of Lewis acid sites. Notably, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial propane dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including silanol nests in zeolites, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed on these zeolites, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values early on. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount, with increased metal dispersion at low loadings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores facilitate Cr species dispersion, ensuring stability. Optimizing Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio enhances catalytic efficiency. Zeolites, with tunable acidity and thermal stability, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, affecting reaction pathways. Active site nature and density influence framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic activity. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions held to framework oxygen ions, while unimolecular pathways involve charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs through proton and carbenium ion interactions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material offers better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, with potential for dehydrogenation at 350 C, highlighting the role of redox properties in achieving this.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability and zeolite pore size, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites can minimize overall barriers, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides can increase robustness against coking. The existence of Au atoms in alloys weakens the interaction with surface metal atoms, increasing the dissociation barrier height. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex systems. These insights provide a deeper understanding of dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically geometric and electronic effects, are crucial in dehydrogenation reactions, notably in PDH. The double modification of PtGa intermetallics, involving Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca as an electron-donating agent to enrich Pt1 sites, effectively suppresses side reactions. This strategy results in an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, demonstrating exceptional stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing acidity alters Pt properties, enhancing catalytic role, while Pt reduces acid site strength on the support, influencing reactions requiring both metal and acid sites. This interplay offers a strategy for optimizing catalytic performance in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, boosts performance through its stability and structure, anchoring Pt and Ru sites and dispersing Ga3+ for enhanced PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency, while hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer superior PDH catalysis compared to Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior is pivotal in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity on Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH, as studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. Surface area analysis reveals high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation, excess NaCl enhances catalyst stability and Pt dispersion, suppressing acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, and component introduction order further improves Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, as Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt stabilization on oxide substrate heteroatoms and in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) creates selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable high-temperature propane dehydrogenation catalysts, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, critically affect dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are pivotal; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, reducing coke formation. Pt interactions with supports like SiO2 and CeO2 influence alloy formation and redox properties, affecting coke deposition. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, impacting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification affects Lewis and Brnsted acid sites, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. Optimal results, achieving 97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol, were observed with 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta, showing high tolerance to furfural concentration. The type of alkali-metal ions and alkaline solution concentration correlate with acidity and textual properties, significantly influencing catalytic performance. Post-synthetic methods create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, enhancing catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites is essential for promoting chemical transformations and avoiding undesired reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Strategic support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties for enhanced catalytic performance. Proper acidity is essential for avoiding negative impacts on the dehydrogenation process, and zeolites favor Lewis acid sites over Brnsted acid sites for better catalysis. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces to improve diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Ca-promotion reduces Al2O3 acid centers and enhances alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity to 98.5% and stability. The DMRA model shows a deactivation function of 0.05 h^-1 and residual activity of 0.82 for Ca-promoted catalysts at 600 C, indicating improved coke resistance. Higher activation energy in Ca-promoted catalysts, due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity by 2.1% at 600 C and 24 h TOS.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, demonstrates greater activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites directly correlates with propane conversion rates, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Support modification strategies that enhance Lewis acid site density can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are essential for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites, these catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity over 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst, impacting its performance. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions, as demonstrated by high PDH activity and stability in CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5. Cr loading and the SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact catalytic efficiency. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and high surface area, provide an ideal environment for Cr dispersion and stability, enhancing catalytic performance. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 are crucial for propane adsorption and activation, directly affecting catalytic efficiency. Strategic support modification, such as selecting HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites, optimizes Cr-based catalysts for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification enhances catalyst stability by reducing VOx polymerization. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects alkene selectivity. Weaker proton sites in borosilicate zeolites improve selectivity over aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers, as seen in copper-aluminum framework materials, may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite structure and pore size effects on catalytic activity, are pivotal for dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency by weakening CH bond interactions and inhibiting secondary cracking reactions, respectively, as evidenced by studies showing Au's role in increasing dissociation barrier height and PtCu's ability to suppress reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are crucial. A promising strategy involves double modifying PtGa intermetallics: Pb decorates to geometrically block Pt3 sites, while Ca acts as an electron-donating agent, enriching Pt1 sites to suppress side reactions. This results in an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, demonstrating exceptional stability at 600C for up to 1 month without deactivation, as evidenced by its outstanding catalytic stability and negligible deactivation over time.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports enhances the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification could optimize this interplay for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly those of Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's structural advantages and stability anchor Pt and Ru sites, while its interaction with Ga2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, enhancing PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, and surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a hydrothermal method, benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. These insights into Al2O3's role and support modification strategies optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals dual acid sites in parent H-Beta, absent in Si-Beta post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, Zn adds Lewis acidity, and Pt-Zn interaction boosts acidity. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as sub-100nm aggregates with closely contacted Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity drop after Zn addition. High surface areas and micropore volumes, preserved post-dealumination and metal incorporation, suggest robust microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta effective PDH catalysts, as evidenced by enhanced ammonia desorption and CO adsorption FTIR spectra revealing Pt's electronic environment's significance for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, are critical. Excess NaCl enhances stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, moderate calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly bound to oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Strong Pt-Sn zeolite interactions boost catalytic performance when Pt particles are confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, enhancing electron density to weaken Pt bonds, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are critical for preventing undesirable coke and improving metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Al2O3 nanosheets enhance metal-support interaction. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetal formation. CeO2's redox properties eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials disperse active phases with more sites and less coke. MXenes and carbon materials are also effective supports. Each support distinctly affects catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation are crucial. Using silica to dope alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Zr-Al-Beta's performance is enhanced by alkali-metal ions, improving selectivity and stability. Support modification, exemplified by the post-synthetic method for Zr-Al-Beta, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity by tuning acidic sites, leading to superior activity and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites is crucial for promoting desired chemical transformations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity. Morphological features affect diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance involve modifying supports to enhance diffusion, such as using nanosized supports and specific morphologies with high external surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity to 98.5% and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits a lower deactivation rate of 0.05 h-1 and higher residual activity of 0.82 at 600°C, indicating better resistance against deactivation by coke. Despite slightly higher activation energy, this leads to improved steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. Specifically, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles on zeolites with silanol nests exhibit high catalytic durability and selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, maintaining activity for 20 days, whereas PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. The intermetallic compound formation requires yttrium migration through silanol nests. Coke deposition on spent catalysts is 37 wt%. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading, with lower loadings showing higher dispersion and conversion. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's acidic sites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts enhance catalytic efficiency, as confirmed by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide an optimal environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical, with zeolites offering high surface area, well-defined channels, and tunable acidity. HZSM-5 zeolite with suitable acidic sites is an ideal support for CrOx catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and the distribution of surface V species in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors on the support. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with charge magnitude and ionic radius of cations. Catalyst preparation should avoid cations that catalyze side reactions. Creating a CH polarization effect on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions or charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton or carbenium ion. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity than cheaper alternatives. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. The redox property of metal centers in copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by the zeolite framework and the effect of pore size on catalytic activity, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, guided by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, utilizing advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Promoters like Au atoms can shift the d band of alloys, weakening CH bond interaction and increasing dissociation barrier height, as shown in [4]. The ultimate goal is to optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity through strategic support modification, as highlighted in [19].", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties significantly impact performance. The double modification of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites optimizes catalytic efficiency. This strategy results in a highly stable catalyst, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding stability in PDH. Tuning electronic properties, specifically enriching Pt1 sites, suppresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity enhances the electronic properties of metals like Pt, while the presence of Pt reduces acid site strength, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic performance, as the interplay between support and metal properties is crucial for reactions requiring both active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Al2O3's structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions by anchoring Pt, Ru, and Ga3+ cations, enhancing activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH reaction performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on modified Al2O3 catalyze non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, while surface acidity affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, as per NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. CO adsorption FTIR studies the crucial local electronic environment of Pt for PDH. XRD patterns show BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicative of well-preserved microporous structures, were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably NaCl addition, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions by enhancing MFI-zeolite stability, promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and suppressing zeolite acidity. Washing after calcination boosts activity and stability by redispersing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds, optimizing Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ sites anchor Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt, boosting propane dehydrogenation selectivity and stability. PtSn bimetallics confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores ensure high-temperature stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlled acidity prevents coke and isomerization, and high surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation, while CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions and eliminating coke with water vapor. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry, similar to vanadium oxide, varies with loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ions enhance Zr-Al-Beta's stability and carbon deposit tolerance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation in reactions. The type and concentration of these ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting catalytic performance. Support modification, such as post-synthetic methods, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity by creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether, achieving superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity. Morphological features influence diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. For zeolites, Lewis acid sites favor propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites promote cleavage reactions. Support modification strategies, including nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation, significantly enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model successfully fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation kinetics. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation compared to non-promoted samples. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, enhances propane conversion, highlighting the importance of these sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, achieves the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial dehydrogenation processes. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and a sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. They show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 is challenging. Zeolite supports, with their unique environment, enhance catalytic reactions, where Brnsted acid sites are crucial for propane adsorption and activation. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio impact the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores improve Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity and thermal stability, are ideal supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are essential for optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification can decrease VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods, and developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites, formed in situ, consist of alkyl carbenium ions held to the zeolite framework. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion pathways. Redox cycles are required for CH activation via oxidative addition but not for Lewis base-assisted deprotonation. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism is relevant for CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite structure and zeolite pore size affecting catalytic activity, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimizing the AlAl distance in zeolites to a minimum overall barrier enhances catalytic efficiency, adhering to the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify optimal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex catalytic systems. The existence of Au atoms shifts the d band of alloys, weakening CH bond interaction and increasing the dissociation barrier height, while the deeper d-band center in PtSn alloy compared to pure Pt reduces reactivity. These insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms challenging to explore at the molecular level experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, specifically in PDH. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electron enrichment of Pt1 sites suppresses side reactions and enhances stability. This dual modification, as in PtGaCaPb/SiO2, creates an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, exhibiting exceptional stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as demonstrated by negligible deactivation over time.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity enhances Pt properties, crucial for catalytic efficiency in dehydrogenation reactions. Conversely, Pt reduces acid site strength, impacting selectivity. Optimizing this reciprocal relationship is key to enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites due to its unsaturated Al3+ sites. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction enhances PDH activity and stability by dispersing Ga3+ cations. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane, while surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals that parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhancing ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved microporous structures. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal. Excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, curbs sintering, and moderates acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, featuring high surface acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, and component introduction order, significantly improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates tightly secure Pt particles. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, influence catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including surface area-to-metal loading ratio and reducibility of vanadium species, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide, similar to vanadium oxide, exists as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, affecting catalytic performance. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, with weak Lewis acid sites, is crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are essential for activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Potassium reduces activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide resists coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance by enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. This modification correlates with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, including post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, with morphology affecting diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for PDH reactions, as excessive acidity can negatively affect the process. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. To enhance catalytic efficiency, strategies include creating nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with specific morphologies and high external surfaces to improve diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    