Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca decreases Al2O3 acid centers and increases alloy formation, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for the Ca-promoted catalyst, indicating enhanced coke resistance. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst due to GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. More Lewis acid sites in γ-Al2O3 than θ-Al2O3 enhance propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high strong acid sites, shows the highest yield and regenerability, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. A diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source synthesize zeolites with silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed and contain both Pt and Y, with a 3:1 atomic ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity for 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Zeolite-supported catalysts offer a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal, as evidenced by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. High surface area and well-defined pores in HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for high catalytic performance. Selecting suitable supports for Cr-based catalysts is essential for PDH, with HZSM-5's tunable acidity making it a good support for CrOx catalysts. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) significantly influence propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic performance. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and zeolite framework oxygen ions. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion pathways. Oxidative addition and Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanisms describe CH activation on OGa+ and OZn2+O sites, respectively. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in catalysis. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential of Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanisms and redox properties for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability is influenced by the zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational approaches. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal to dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, enhancing stability and selectivity. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic effects, creating an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity influences the electronic properties of supported metals, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Specifically, the acidity of the support alters the properties of Pt, with increased acidity leading to greater changes. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, enhances performance through its structural stability and the presence of Al3+ sites that anchor metals like Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 allows for the dispersion of Ga3+ cations, improving PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, leading to superior PDH reaction performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and specific interactions with Ga2O3, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, evaluated by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns display BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes indicate well-preserved structures post-dealumination and metal incorporation. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal, with excess NaCl enhancing MFI-zeolite stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and suppressing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal performance is achieved under high external surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, and calcination temperatures around 400-500°C, with washing and the order of component introduction further improving Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles confined in Sn-zeolite frameworks or lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) show high performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation, attributed to strong interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores are stable at high temperatures, with efficiency linked to PtSn confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are crucial for preventing coke and improving catalytic stability. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while specific supports like Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 enhance stability and redox properties, respectively. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites, and high weak acid sites, leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites is crucial for promoting desired chemical transformations and avoiding undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological features, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Optimization strategies involve developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to enhance diffusion efficiency, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C, 24 h TOS). The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts. The activation energy for PDH is higher in Ca-promoted catalysts due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy. This initially decreases activity but improves resistance against coke, boosting steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. A diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source in synthesis create silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature. Homogeneous distribution and a size of 2 nm are observed, with an average atomic ratio of Pt to Y of 3. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH show superior durability to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer influence catalytic reactions. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are key to catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic efficiency. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 provide a suitable environment for Cr species, enhancing activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, serve as effective supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and the distribution of surface V species in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P and Mg modifications can enhance stability and activity by reducing VOx polymerization and dispersing V2O5 crystallites, respectively. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Optimizing these properties through support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species, although environmental and safety concerns exist with certain catalysts due to their toxicity. Ga catalysts, while less active, are benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is essential for vanadium-based catalysts, as the metalsupport interactions affect performance. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is influenced by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Recent studies highlight the role of electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species in enhancing hydrocarbon bond polarization, which is crucial for CH activation. Polarization effects increase with the charge and ionic radius of alkane polarizing cations. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts show high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength control enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is critical for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity and stability, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite framework and pore size effects on catalytic activity, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, with computational advancements enabling exploration of complex systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore experimentally. Promoters like Au atoms and PtCu enhance catalytic efficiency by weakening CH bond interaction and inhibiting propylene adsorption, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are critical, especially in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy yields a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH for up to 1 month at 600C, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, highlighting the importance of electronic properties in enhancing catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports impacts the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of acid sites on supports, affecting reactions requiring both metal and acid sites, as seen in the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts. This interplay between metal and support properties is crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances stability and anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 affects propane adsorption and activation, influencing coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer efficient PDH catalysis, benchmarking against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, showed parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacked acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduction created medium acid sites, and Zn added Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhanced ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy revealed 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirmed Pt-Zn species formation. XRD patterns indicated BEA topology preservation with intensity decline after Zn addition. Surface area analysis showed high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. Pt introduction didn't alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances stability in propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts, promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and suppressing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability through redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, and water washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high performance in propane dehydrogenation, attributed to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial for preventing coke and enhancing metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 supports and Pt ions on CeO2 exhibit unique properties. Water vapor can eliminate coke deposition on CeO2. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent coke and improve stability. Mesoporous materials and 2D carbides like MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, are chemically inert and stable. Each support affects catalytic properties by altering metal particle characteristics and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have high concentrations of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta enhanced catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. The type of alkali-metal ions and concentration influenced catalytic efficiency, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Support modification strategies, such as post-synthetic methods, optimize catalytic properties by tuning acidic sites, enhancing activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Controllable tuning of acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Support modification, like optimizing acidity for PDH and using Lewis acid sites in zeolites, enhances catalytic performance. Strategies include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to improve diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C, 24 h TOS). The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating better resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The activation energy for the PDH reaction increases slightly (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), enhancing Pt-Ge alloy formation and improving steady-state activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalyst efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. More Lewis acid sites in γ-Al2O3 than θ-Al2O3 enhance propane conversion, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high yield and regenerability, is sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica in synthesis creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst slowly deactivates over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolites offer a unique environment for reactions, with channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer. Acidic sites in zeolites are crucial for alkane conversion. Cr/HZSM-5's performance is elucidated through characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, revealing the importance of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites. CrOx catalysts' structure is analyzed by N2 sorption, and XRD confirms Cr loading's minimal impact on HZSM-5's crystalline structure. NH3-TPD measures acidity, and XPS assesses metal-support interactions. High PDH temperatures cause coke formation, leading to deactivation. Reactant-catalyst interactions are vital. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic performance. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 enhance catalytic performance. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Support selection is critical for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Zeolites, with their high surface area, channels, thermal stability, and tunable acidity, are suitable for catalytic reactions. Only HZSM-5 with suitable acidic sites is a good support for CrOx in PDH. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence of precursors. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks. Bimolecular pathway active sites involve alkyl carbenium ions held to framework oxygen. Unimolecular pathway active sites are framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 has lower alkene selectivity due to unexchanged proton sites. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt is a versatile catalyst for alkane reactions, offering higher activity, stability, and selectivity than cheaper alternatives. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role. Sn's electronic promotion aligns with oxidative addition CH activation. Lewis base-assisted deprotonation may explain CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent report suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material has superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework, and larger pore sizes in zeolites slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms are revealed through case studies, challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking, while Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interaction, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center, and PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions, with geometric and electronic effects being pivotal. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to the double modification strategy. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This synergistic approach results in an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH, with almost no deactivation observed for up to 1 month at 600C, highlighting the importance of tuning electronic properties for enhanced catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing support acidity alters Pt properties, impacting the desorption of pyridine from acid sites and suppressing cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts. This interaction demonstrates the potential for strategic support modification to optimize catalyst properties for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, enhances stability and anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, efficiently catalyze PDH reactions, with structural and catalytic stabilities benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior influences Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interactions, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, with enhanced ammonia desorption. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, critical for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology preservation, with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes, indicative of well-preserved structures, were determined by argon adsorption/desorption. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. The close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst performance is influenced by physicochemical properties. Excess NaCl enhances MFI-zeolite catalyst stability and promotes Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and suppressing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal conditions, including high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and the order of component introduction, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II), creating selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts, with Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks, exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores enable stable catalysis at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, which can be inhibited by modifying support acidity and coke mobility. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as high surface area and uniform pore size, are crucial for metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K can poison strong acid sites, preventing coke deposition on Al2O3. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase, while Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Pt-based bimetals can form on SiO2 supports, and CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke deposition. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials, including carbon nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability, improving catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric species between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves vanadium catalysts' dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Using silica to dope alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide chemistry is comparable to vanadium oxide, existing as monomers, polymers, or crystallites based on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes chemical transformations and avoids undesired reactions, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can cause CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts. This enhanced resistance against coke deactivation leads to better performance in terms of activity and selectivity. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in Ca-promoted catalysts due to improved GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreasing activity but improving steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rate, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with high strong acid site levels, exhibits the highest yield and regenerability, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, are critical for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The catalysts have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Strategic support modification, like using a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260, synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolites provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are elucidated through characterization, PDH tests, and Na+ doping, revealing their role in high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, crucial for PDH. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity and thermal stability, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance. Support selection is critical for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with HZSM-5 zeolite's suitable acidic sites making it a good support. The high amounts of acidic sites in HZSM-5 are detrimental to PDH, highlighting the need for careful support modification.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization increases with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation. Active sites are formed in situ, involving alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts show high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects selectivity. Borosilicate zeolites offer weaker proton sites and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity and selectivity, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. A recent copper-aluminum framework material shows superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides and hydrides, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Zeolite framework stability and pore size influence catalytic activity, with larger pores lowering activation barriers. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, minimize overall barriers, guided by the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advanced computational methods to explore complex systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. Case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, offering insights difficult to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interactions, increasing dissociation barriers. PtSn alloy's deeper d-band center lowers reactivity. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability. Metal oxide stability is influenced by zeolite structure, and optimal AlAl distances in zeolites correspond to minimum barriers. Computational advancements enable detailed analysis of catalytic systems, despite complexity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Geometric and electronic effects are critical, especially in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa with Pb and Ca optimizes these effects, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density at Pt1 sites, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on supports, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites for anchoring Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic efficiency. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, improving PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, yielding high performance in PDH reactions. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites on Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and activation, affecting coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via hydrothermal methods, demonstrate structural and catalytic stability in PDH reactions. C3H6 desorption behavior in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions is a critical factor. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and optimizing Al2O3 interactions, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra reveal Pt's local electronic environment, crucial for PDH. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, determined by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and reduces acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimal conditions for Pt dispersion and stability include high surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Heteroatoms in oxide substrates and lattice-confined Sn stabilize Pt particles, improving selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined in zeolite frameworks, particularly at Sn single-sites, exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity, while unsaturated ones catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates bimetal formation. CeO2's redox properties under propane dehydrogenation eliminate coke. Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, improving stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials offer large surface areas and stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to vanadium oxide, with Mo present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The use of zirconia as an alternative support has been investigated. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been informative regarding the influence of acidity on catalytic behavior. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines species formation. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are important for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites are detrimental to catalyst performance. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. MgO addition improves dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction of molybdenum oxide catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. High concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of Ga3+ cations is necessary for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. Platinum assists hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of different vanadium species, which affects the catalytic activity. The presence of hydroxyl groups on the support surface is crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while large V2O5 crystallites are inactive in dehydrogenation. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, and the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+. Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and coke deposition. The calcination of the catalyst can remove coke but may further deactivate the catalyst due to the formation of larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species under certain conditions. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Using silica to dope the alumina support can improve catalyst stability and activity. The addition of MgO can improve the performance of supported vanadium catalysts by reducing coke formation. The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The nature of the support is crucial as it not only determines the mechanical properties of the catalyst but also affects the interaction between the carrier and the active phase, which can profoundly impact catalyst activity and selectivity. For instance, alumina is the most common support, and the method of producing chromia-alumina catalysts can vary, affecting the catalyst's performance. The choice of support can also influence the catalytic activity, with different supports leading to varying orders of activity based on conversion and yield. Zirconia, as an alternative support, has been investigated for its low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites, and mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for their catalytic properties in dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as seen in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials, can also influence catalytic behavior, with strong acid sites affecting cracking reactions and medium strength acid sites impacting dehydrogenation reactions. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize the properties of catalysts for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping alumina-based dehydrogenation catalysts with alkali ions can effectively poison undesirable acid sites, improving selectivity. Using zirconia as a support can prevent the formation of mixed oxides and offer higher thermal stability and surface area. Silica, with its high surface area, can stabilize Cr6+ sites, while mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors can provide improved coking resistance and thermal stability against sintering. Understanding the role of acidity in catalytic behavior can also guide the modification of supports to favor dehydrogenation reactions over cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. The type and concentration of alkali-metal ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing reaction outcomes. Support modification strategies, like post-synthetic methods, create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites is crucial for promoting desired chemical transformations and avoiding undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological features, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength affects selectivity and CH activation, with proper acidity essential for propylene desorption in PDH reactions. Morphological qualities impact diffusion efficiency, crucial for heterogeneous catalysts. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions. Optimizing these properties can improve catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, boost propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts, indicating enhanced coke resistance. The slightly higher activation energy for the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to GeOx species reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites and crystalline structure, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is crucial for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed on zeolites with silanol nests, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. Catalysts like PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst maintains activity over 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. Metal nanoparticles are evenly distributed, with a size of 2 nm, and contain both Pt and Y, with a 3:1 atomic ratio. The activation period for catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites leads to full conversion. Propane conversion exceeds equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Catalyst loading inversely affects propane conversion, with lower loadings showing higher dispersion and conversion. Support modification strategies, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Cr species and Brnsted acid sites, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports provide a unique environment for reactions, with Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhancing propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for high catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 stabilize Cr species, ensuring activity and stability. Support modification strategies, focusing on Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio, are essential for optimizing catalytic efficiency. High amounts of acidic sites in HZSM-5 are detrimental to PDH, making the selection of suitable acidic sites critical for CrOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, affecting catalyst performance with different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Cation exchange can create a CH polarization effect, enhancing activation. Active sites formed in situ involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. Controlling proton site strength, by using weaker acidity in borosilicate zeolites, can improve alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher costs, offer superior activity and stability for alkane dehydrogenation. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, and Zn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. The redox property of metal centers plays a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising research direction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite framework and optimal AlAl distance for minimum overall barrier, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Zeolite pore size affects catalytic activity, with larger sizes lowering activation barriers. The Sabatier principle guides the determination of optimal distances between active sites. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level details challenging to obtain experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month. The double modification strategy, involving Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites, optimizes the geometric and electronic effects. This synergistic approach enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity, effectively suppressing side reactions and increasing the catalyst's lifetime in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity, as seen in the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in heterogeneous catalysis, anchors atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites due to its structural advantages. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high performance in PDH reactions. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Al2O3's structure, particularly surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites, influences propane adsorption, activation, and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized via a one-step hydrothermal method, benchmark structural and catalytic stabilities against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt-Zn interaction is evident in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta's enhanced ammonia desorption peak. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. High surface areas and large micropore volumes, measured by argon adsorption/desorption, suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties significantly affect performance. Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and reduces acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability are achieved with high external acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Confined Pt particles at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance propane dehydrogenation selectivity, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility inhibition are crucial. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping in Al2O3 reduce coke. Pt-SiO2 interaction forms bimetals, while Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, aiding in coke elimination. Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke and enhancing stability. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The structure of mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide increases resistance to coking. K reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Alumina is the most common support, with various methods explored for chromia-alumina catalyst production. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affects catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ions enhance Zr-Al-Beta's stability and resistance to carbon deposits, as evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. These ions improve catalytic performance and selectivity, with optimal results achieved at specific concentrations. Post-synthetic modification creates open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, boosting catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability in cinnamaldehyde conversion. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired reactions while avoiding undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to negative effects. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Diffusion efficiency in heterogeneous catalysts is determined by support properties. Optimization strategies include developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability (98.5% vs. 96.4% at 600 C, 24 h TOS). The DMRA model fits propane conversion data, revealing intrinsic deactivation parameters. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating better coke resistance. The PDH reaction's activation energy increases slightly (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, like Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, are critical for dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed on the support, containing both Pt and Y with a 3:1 atomic ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst slowly deactivates over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (Cr/Z-5(260)), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite's role goes beyond being an inert support, providing channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer. Acidic sites are crucial for alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5, elucidated through characterization and PDH tests, are key for high performance. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic efficiency. Brnsted acid sites enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores stabilize Cr species, ensuring activity and stability. Support selection is critical for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal for catalytic reactions. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 are essential for CrOx catalysts in PDH. Brnsted acid sites play a pivotal role in the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, and cation choice should avoid catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalysis. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation via proton and carbenium ions. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 yield high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by zeolite framework cations, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite higher cost, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. The Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite structure and pore size effects on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking, while Au atoms in alloys weaken CH bond interaction, increasing dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy's lower reactivity is due to a deeper d-band center, and PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, creating an ultra-stable system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites for geometric modification, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, suppressing side reactions. This strategy results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, maintaining activity for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, affecting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites. This interplay can potentially optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances catalytic efficiency through its structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites, which anchor Pt and Ru. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic properties for better efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Surface area and micropore volume analyses show well-preserved structures post-modification. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties, notably NaCl excess, enhance stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and suppressing acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redispersing chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized performance is achieved with high external acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and proper component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly anchored on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling support acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and prevent coke. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties beneficial for dehydrogenation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes provide active sites and hinder coke formation. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability. Each support type uniquely influences catalytic properties, affecting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves vanadium catalyst selectivity by reducing coke formation. Using silica to dope alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide. The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and various methods have been explored to produce chromia-alumina catalysts. The choice of support can influence the stability and dispersion of the active phase, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Doping with alkali metals can stabilize the structure of the support, reduce surface acidity, and increase the number of active sites. Using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirmed the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved by tuning acidity and textual properties, influenced by the type and concentration of alkali-metal ions. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, promoting chemical transformations while avoiding undesired pathways. This approach yields superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites favor propane dehydrogenation. Strategies to optimize catalytic performance involve modifying support properties to enhance diffusion, such as using nanosized supports and specific morphologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength and alloy formation, impact dehydrogenation reactions, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Ca addition reduces acid centers and increases alloy formation, improving resistance against deactivation by coke. DMRA analysis reveals lower deactivation rates and higher residual activity for Ca-promoted catalysts. Activation energy increases slightly for Ca-promoted catalysts due to enhanced GeOx reduction, forming a Pt-Ge alloy. This initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites and crystalline structure, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The Lewis acid site, originating from the unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3, is crucial for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, where the conversion rate is directly linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests are crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br deactivates slowly over 20 days, contrasting with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl's rapid deactivation. Low catalyst loading correlates with higher propane conversion due to increased metal dispersion. Support modification strategies, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalysts' physicochemical properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Zeolites provide a unique environment for catalysis, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance, as elucidated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio affect catalytic performance. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, while the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 stabilize Cr species, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with their tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) are pivotal for propane activation and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can beneficially affect both supports and active species geometrically and electronically. The nature of the support is critical for vanadium-based catalysts, affecting performance through metalsupport interactions. The activity is dependent on the VOsupport bond strength, influenced by different supports.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation choice should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can be beneficial. Active sites are typically formed on zeolite frameworks, involving alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion pathways. Oxidative addition requires a redox cycle at the metal center, whereas Lewis base-assisted deprotonation does not. Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts with unexchanged proton sites show lower alkene selectivity. Controlling proton site strength, such as using borosilicate zeolites, can enhance alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. The role of surface oxygen species is becoming clearer. The electronic promotion effect of Sn aligns with oxidative addition CH activation, while Lewis base-assisted deprotonation explains CH activation on Cr-based catalysts. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, with potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, highlighting the role of redox properties in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions; metal oxides' stability is influenced by zeolite framework structure (Quote [7]), and larger zeolite pore sizes lower activation barriers (Quote [8]). Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites minimize overall barriers (Quote [9]), and theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes (Quote [19]). Advances in computational methods enable deeper insights into complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in PDH. The double modification of PtGa with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites, creates an ultra-stable system. This design concept synergizes promotion effects, leading to a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH for up to 1 month at high temperatures, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, with minimal deactivation observed.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, with increased acidity enhancing Pt properties. Conversely, Pt presence reduces the strength of acid sites on supports, impacting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. This is evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the importance of strategic support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support in catalysis, anchors metal sites and its structure affects adsorption and activation. The interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 enhances PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving long-term PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites in Al2O3 influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. A hydrothermal method synthesizes CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficient PDH catalysis, showcasing support modification strategies for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, shows parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites. Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta boosts ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy reveals 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity drop after Zn addition. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, are crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl boosts stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and reduces acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, such as high surface acid site concentration, specific Na/Pt ratios, and water washing, improve Pt dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability on surfaces, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilize atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating a selective Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting adsorption configuration and strength of propylene. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are critical; controlling support acidity prevents undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals can poison strong acid sites, and doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase. Al2O3 nanosheets anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetal formation, while strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, utilizing CeO2's redox properties to eliminate coke. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports prevent large hydrocarbon formation, reducing coke deposits. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials, including nanotubes and graphene, offer large surface areas and stability, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species predominant below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support enhances vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites enhances catalytic performance, improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy confirm the modification of acid sites. Optimal catalytic efficiency is achieved with specific alkali-metal ion types and concentrations, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies create open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, improving catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is vital for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    