Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions, and what support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The influence of catalyst physicochemical properties on dehydrogenation reactions and the optimization of catalytic performance through strategic support modification'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows a deactivation function of 0.05 h^-1 and a residual activity of 0.82 at 600°C, compared to 0.22 h^-1 and 0.63 for the non-promoted sample, indicating enhanced resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The promoted catalyst has a slightly higher activation energy due to improved GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but enhances steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for better catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits greater activity in propane dehydrogenation. The amount of Lewis acid sites correlates with propane conversion rates, indicating their role as active sites. Specifically, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield and is regenerable, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably silanol nests in zeolites, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed within these nests, exhibit high catalytic durability, achieving a 20-day lifetime with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. After an activation period, propane conversion exceeds equilibrium values initially. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br shows slow deactivation over 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates within a day. 37 wt% of coke species deposit on the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst. There's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading, with increased metal dispersion at low loadings. Strategic support modification, such as using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high PDH activity, selectivity, and stability. Acidic sites, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are pivotal for catalytic performance in alkane conversion. Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts enhance catalytic efficiency. HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores provide an optimal environment for Cr species dispersion and stabilization, ensuring high activity and stability. The selection of supports is crucial for Cr-based catalysts in PDH, with HZSM-5's suitable acidic sites making it an ideal support. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures boost alkane conversion but reduce alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape, channel, and cavity. Active site nature and density impact framework dispersion forces. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding hydride abstraction in CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Cation selection should prevent catalytic effects on alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic performance. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions held to zeolite framework oxygen, while unimolecular pathways involve charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicate. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer higher activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a significant role in catalysis. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, indicating the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures through the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxides' stability, influenced by the zeolite framework, and zeolite pore size, which slightly affects catalytic activity, are crucial. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. The existence of Au atoms in alloys shifts the d band, weakening surface metal atom interactions and increasing the dissociation barrier height. Computational studies have advanced, revealing dehydrogenation mechanisms that are challenging to explore experimentally. The ultimate goal is to identify optimal catalysts for specific chemical processes through theoretical studies, considering factors like the stability of metal oxides, pore size effects, and the precise arrangement of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, the geometric and electronic properties of catalysts are critical. A promising strategy involves decorating PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, where Pb blocks Pt3 sites and Ca enriches Pt1 sites, enhancing stability and suppressing side reactions. This results in a catalyst with exceptional stability in PDH, showing no deactivation for up to 1 month at 600C.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports alters the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Increased acidity enhances property changes in Pt, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support. This interdependence is evident in changes to pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions during decalin ring opening on Pt-modified catalysts, highlighting the importance of strategic support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's stability and interaction with metals like Pt, Ru, and PtSn, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3 supports enhance performance by stabilizing metals, as seen with PtSn nanoclusters on γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, improving PDH reaction efficiency. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and coke deposition. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced stability. The behavior of C3H6 desorption in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions underscores the importance of support modification for optimized catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks these post dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, enhancing ammonia desorption on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns confirm BEA topology with intensity decline post Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and micropore volumes, preserving microporous structure. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts, highlighting the effectiveness of strategic support modification.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, excess NaCl enhances catalyst stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimal performance is achieved under conditions that promote high external surface acid sites, specific Na/Pt ratios, controlled calcination temperatures, water washing, and strategic component introduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, crucial for catalytic efficiency in dehydrogenation. Al2O3's pentacoordinate Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Sn-zeolite framework confinement boosts catalytic performance, attributed to strong Pt particle interaction. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores ensure stability at high temperatures, with efficiency linked to mesopore confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, while Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties for coke elimination. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation, whereas CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions. Mesoporous materials and MXenes disperse active phases, reducing coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties, influencing metal particle distribution and reaction stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates species formation, with Wu et al. noting monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced than VO-support bonds. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Using silica to dope alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity, as Sokolov et al. found. Support modification, such as MgO addition or silica doping, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Hydroxyl groups on the support surface are crucial for anchoring vanadium precursors, while acid sites are detrimental. The nature of the support governs mechanical properties and profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Alumina is the most common support, with various methods explored for chromia-alumina catalyst production. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support, as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, significantly affects catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, like doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ions tweak acid sites, boosting resistance to deactivation and coking, with their type and concentration influencing acidity and textural properties for optimized catalytic efficiency. Strategic support modification, including post-synthetic methods, creates stronger Lewis acidic sites, enhancing activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with diverse active sites boosts selectivity by promoting desired chemical transformations and avoiding unwanted reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions' selectivity and efficiency. Morphological features affect diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is critical for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation, whereas Brnsted acid sites catalyze cleavage reactions. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies, aim to enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers and enhances alloy formation, improving propylene selectivity and stability (Quote 2). The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation and higher residual activity, indicating better resistance to coke (Quotes 4 and 5). This results in higher activation energy for the PDH reaction due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity (Quotes 6 and 7). Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with a higher density of Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits superior activity in propane dehydrogenation. The conversion rate of propane is directly proportional to the number of Lewis acid sites, highlighting their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by high yield and reversible deactivation, is regenerable and thus sustainable for industrial propane dehydrogenation applications. Strategic support modification, such as enhancing Lewis acid sites and optimizing crystalline structure, can improve catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests, confirmed by spectroscopy, which are essential for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, with fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity over 20 days. Support modification strategies, including the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Achieving both high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains challenging. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 enhance propane adsorption and CH bond activation, crucial for catalytic performance. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly affect the efficiency of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. Zeolites, with tunable acidity and high surface area, serve as effective supports for CrOx catalysts in PDH, where suitable acidic sites are essential. The selection of supports for Cr-based catalysts is critical for optimizing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports like Al2O3 influences catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, increasing active V3+ species and improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for future dehydrogenation processes. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects enhance with cation charge and radius, complementing CH activation. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation pathways. Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 catalysts show high alkene selectivity. Proton site strength, influenced by the zeolite framework's trivalent cation, affects selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts, despite being expensive, offer superior activity, stability, and selectivity for alkane reactions. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Promoting Pt with Sn, Ga, Zn, Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on selectivity. Surface oxygen species play a critical role in CH activation mechanisms. Recent findings suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides influenced by zeolite structure and the effect of zeolite pore size on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Larger pore sizes in zeolites lower activation barriers, while the optimal AlAl distance, determined by the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational approaches. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, which are challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. The existence of Au atoms in alloys increases the dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy exhibits lower reactivity due to a deeper d-band center. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is influenced by the zeolite framework. The weak binding of intermediates on specific sites favors H2 desorption. The ultimate goal is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are crucial. The double modification of PtGa with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites creates an ultra-stable catalytic system. This design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, achieving exceptional stability at high temperatures with minimal deactivation over a month, as demonstrated by PtGaCaPb/SiO2.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity enhances Pt electronic properties, while Pt reduces the strength of acid sites, affecting catalytic efficiency. Strategic support modification, as evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions, is crucial for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, enhancing dispersion. Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction boosts Ga3+ dispersion, improving PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH performance. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates isobutane dehydrogenation. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer enhanced PDH catalysis. C3H6 desorption behavior affects Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modification, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals weak and strong acid sites in H-Beta, with Si-Beta lacking acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, while Zn adds Lewis acid sites. The introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta enhances ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH, as studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns display BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. Zeolite samples exhibit high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Excess NaCl in catalysts boosts dehydrogenation efficiency by enhancing MFI-zeolite stability, promoting Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and reducing acidity. Washing post-calcination further improves activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds, achieving optimal Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Lattice-confined Sn stabilizes small Pt particles, creating selective Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks show high performance due to strong Pt-framework interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores form stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts, demonstrating the impact of strategic support modification on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms enhance selectivity, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, influenced by support acidity and mobility. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, affect catalytic performance. Acidic supports should be controlled to prevent coke and isomerization. High surface area supports improve metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites and avoid coke. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 enhance stability and redox properties, respectively. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, forming bimetals, while CeO2 strongly interacts, trapping Pt ions. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are inert and stable. Supports alter selectivity and stability by influencing metal particles and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio dictates vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. Reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure, with VOV and VO bonds more easily reduced. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves catalyst stability and activity. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of molybdenum oxide catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially impact dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation, correlating with acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic support modification strategies create stronger Lewis acidity, improving activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes desired transformations and avoids undesired pathways, optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and stability, significantly impact dehydrogenation selectivity. Morphology influences diffusion efficiency. Strategic support modification, summarized in Table 3, optimizes these properties. Proper acidity is essential for PDH, with excessive acidity leading to CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Enhancing catalytic efficiency involves developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies to improve diffusion, as detailed in quotes 1, 3, 4, and 5.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers and boosts alloy formation, significantly enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Ca-promoted catalysts exhibit lower deactivation rates (0.05 h-1 vs. 0.22 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63), indicating superior resistance to coke-induced deactivation. The activation energy for PDH reactions is marginally higher in Ca-enhanced catalysts due to increased GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but optimizes steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Strategic support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes these properties for superior catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the Lewis acid sites from the unsaturated AlIII in Al2O3 are critical, with γ-Al2O3 exhibiting more such sites than θ-Al2O3, enhancing propane dehydrogenation activity. Propane conversion rates correlate positively with the amount of Lewis acid sites, indicating their role as active sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, characterized by a high level of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield and regenerability, making it a sustainable choice for industrial applications. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed with silanol nests in zeolites synthesized using specific surfactants and silica sources, exhibit high catalytic durability and selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition, and the conversion decreases with increased metal loading. Strategic support modification optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, excels in PDH with high activity, selectivity, and stability. Zeolite supports, particularly Brnsted acid sites, are crucial for propane adsorption and activation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio influence catalytic performance, with HZSM-5's high surface area and well-defined pores enhancing Cr species dispersion and stability. Zeolites, with their high surface area, thermal stability, and tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Suitable acidic sites in HZSM-5 make it a prime support for CrOx catalysts, where Cr species and Brnsted acid sites are pivotal for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects catalytic performance by altering Lewis acid sites and the distribution of surface V species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Support properties, such as acidity and metalsupport interactions, are crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is paramount for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength, stability, and morphology, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions on support materials vary with the impregnation sequence. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and ionic radius. Active sites on zeolites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and charge balancing protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ion species. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ activates CH via oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength, by using weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites, can enhance alkene selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity for alkane reactions but face deactivation due to coke formation. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but accelerates deactivation compared to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in Cr and Pt-based catalysts minimizes protonic site influence on alkene selectivity. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism and the role of redox properties in achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by the zeolite framework and larger pore sizes in zeolites that slightly enhance catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances around 453 pm minimize overall barriers, based on the Sabatier principle. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, facilitated by advancements in computational methods. Case studies reveal insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to obtain experimentally, such as the role of Au atoms in shifting the d band of alloys and the effect of PtSn alloy's deeper d-band center on higher dehydrogenation barriers.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably geometric and electronic effects, are critical in dehydrogenation reactions, specifically in PDH. A promising design involves double-modifying PtGa intermetallics: Pb geometrically blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites electronically, effectively suppressing side reactions. This strategy yields ultra-stable catalysts with exceptional PDH performance, as exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, which showed no deactivation for up to 1 month at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, the acidity of supports and presence of metals like Pt interact, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Increased acidity boosts Pt properties, while Pt moderates acid site strength. This dynamic, observed through pyridine desorption and reduced cracking reactions, underscores the significance of support modification for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, offers structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites for anchoring Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Its interaction with Ga2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH reaction activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving superior PDH performance. Surface-active Al3+ sites on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyze non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structural diversity, including surface acidity, influences propane adsorption and coke deposition in PDH reactions. Sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, demonstrate high PDH catalytic stability. C3H6 desorption behavior impacts Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Strategic support modifications, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "NH3-TPD showed H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lost these post-dealumination. Pt introduced medium acid sites, and Zn added Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption intensity in Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, indicating strong interaction. Electron microscopy revealed 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirmed Pt-Zn species formation. CO adsorption FTIR spectra highlighted Pt's local electronic environment's importance for PDH. XRD patterns displayed BEA topology with intensity decline post-Zn introduction. Argon adsorption/desorption isotherms showed high surface areas and large micropore volumes, preserving microporous structures. Pt introduction didn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties are pivotal. Excess NaCl in MFI-zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation boosts stability by enhancing Pt dispersion, preventing sintering, and moderating zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing further improves activity and stability through the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high external surface acid site concentrations and specific Na/Pt ratios, significantly boost Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions boosts Pt particle stability, with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchoring atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles are tightly secured on oxide substrate heteroatoms, enhancing stability. Small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high catalytic performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite mesopores become stable propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, with efficiency attributed to PtSn particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern coke formation, affecting propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, and support modification. Acidic supports and coke mobility can be tuned to prevent coke formation. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size enhance metal dispersion and prevent undesirable reactions. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, reducing coke on Al2O3. Pt-based bimetals on SiO2 and Pt ions on CeO2 show enhanced stability and coke resistance. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke deposition. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface area and stability. Each support affects catalytic properties uniquely, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. The reducibility of vanadium species and the addition of MgO to reduce coke formation enhance selectivity. Silica-doped alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, dependent on loading, support, and preparation, show comparable chemistry to vanadium oxide. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, with high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites, is active in dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites and high weak acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with a base like potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption, facilitating regeneration of gallium hydride hydroxide species. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. Optimal results are achieved with specific ion types and concentrations, affecting both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites. Post-synthetic strategies, such as creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity, leading to superior activity, water tolerance, and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions, with morphology affecting diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 decreases acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity to 98.5% at 600 C, 24 h TOS, and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82), indicating better resistance to coke. The activation energy for the PDH reaction is higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol) due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3-200, with a high density of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield in propane dehydrogenation, where the Lewis acid sites correlate with the propane conversion rate. This catalyst's regenerability, allowing recovery from deactivation, makes it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, formed on silanol nest-containing zeolites, exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. These nanoparticles show fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition, indicating deactivation. Strategic support modification, such as using silanol nests, enhances catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260), synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a key role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are crucial for catalytic performance, as elucidated by characterizations and PDH tests. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification improves catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalysts' propane conversion, propene selectivity, and yield. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising due to high surface area and thermal stability, with initial propane conversion increasing with acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by shape and channel. Active site nature and density affect framework dispersion. Electrostatic fields between protons and metal ions enhance hydrocarbon bond polarization, aiding CH activation. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity. Pt-based catalysts offer high activity and stability for alkane reactions, but deactivation from coke formation remains a challenge. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites improves alkene selectivity and stability. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation. The role of potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Future research should focus on non-oxidative dehydrogenation using redox properties of metal centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by zeolite structure and pore size effects on catalytic activity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The optimal AlAl distance in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimizes overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational approaches to explore complex systems. Insights from case studies reveal dehydrogenation mechanisms, challenging to explore at the molecular level. Promoters like Au atoms enhance catalytic efficiency by shifting the d band, weakening CH bond interaction and increasing the dissociation barrier height. PtCu catalysts inhibit propylene adsorption, suppressing secondary cracking reactions and enhancing anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties are critical. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits remarkable stability, with minimal deactivation over a month at high temperatures. This is achieved through geometric modification with Pb, blocking Pt3 sites, and electronic enrichment by Ca, creating an electron-dense Pt1 site that suppresses side reactions. The double modification strategy optimizes geometric and electronic effects, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, support acidity modifies the electronic properties of metals like Pt, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Conversely, Pt alters support acidity, reducing acid site strength. Strategic support modification, evidenced by changes in pyridine desorption and suppression of cracking reactions, optimizes metal-acid site synergy, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's role in anchoring metals like Pt, Ru, and PtSn, significantly enhance dehydrogenation reactions. The Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting activity. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites affects propane adsorption and activation. CoAl2O3HT catalysts, synthesized hydrothermally, offer structural and catalytic stability, benchmarked against Co/Al2O3-IMP. C3H6 desorption is crucial in Co-catalyzed PDH reactions. Support modifications, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta due to Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH, as studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and micropore volumes suggest well-preserved structures post-metal incorporation. Pt introduction does not alter Zn dispersion. Pt-Zn/Si-Beta's robustness for PDH is attributed to close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "NaCl boosts dehydrogenation catalyst stability and Pt dispersion, preventing sintering and suppressing acidity. Post-calcination washing enhances activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble Pt compounds. Optimized conditions, including high surface acid site concentrations, specific Na/Pt ratios, and washing, improve Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, crucial for dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3's unsaturated Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via stabilizing bonds. Pt stabilization on oxide substrate heteroatoms and lattice-confined Sn boosts selectivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Confined PtSn particles in zeolite mesopores significantly improve catalytic performance and stability at high temperatures, due to strong interactions with the zeolite framework.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to coke formation. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and inherently control coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, like acidity and surface area, are crucial; controlling acidity prevents coke and isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and SiO2 supports have distinct effects on Pt-based catalysts. CeO2 supports, with redox properties, help eliminate coke. Mesoporous materials and MXenes offer more active sites and less coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, are stable supports. Each support impacts selectivity and stability differently, altering the component, morphology, and distribution of metal particles, and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. Vanadium species reducibility influences performance, while MgO addition enhances selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica-doped alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Molybdenum oxide species, influenced by loading, support, and preparation, can be optimized for activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3 polymorphs, particularly β-Ga2O3, have weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated Ga3+ cations are crucial for activity. Zeolitic supports with low medium and strong acid sites lead to more active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalysts. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity. The nature of active sites in Ga-based catalysts is debated. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on conditions. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity. Zirconia, as an alternative support, offers low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Acidic support materials can significantly affect catalytic behavior. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion promotion on Zr-Al-Beta boosts catalytic performance, enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking. The type and concentration of ions correlate with acidity and textural properties, affecting catalytic efficiency. Post-synthetic support modification strategies optimize these properties, creating open sites with stronger Lewis acidity, which improves catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability. Tuning acid properties with various active sites promotes chemical transformations and avoids undesired pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphological features, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Acid strength influences selectivity, while morphology affects diffusion efficiency. Support modification, such as adjusting acidity for optimal CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, enhances catalytic performance. For zeolites, Lewis acid sites are ideal for propane dehydrogenation. Strategies like developing nanosized supports improve diffusion efficiency, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is enhanced by reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation through Ca addition, boosting propylene selectivity and stability. The Ca-promoted catalyst shows lower deactivation rates (0.05 h^-1 vs. 0.22 h^-1) and higher residual activity (0.82 vs. 0.63) at 600 C, indicating improved resistance to coke-induced deactivation. Although the activation energy for the PDH reaction is slightly higher in the Ca-promoted catalyst (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol), this results in better steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity due to enhanced resistance against deactivation by coke.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, particularly Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, with conversion rates positively linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, exhibits the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability. Catalysts on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period to reach full conversion, with propane conversion exceeding equilibrium values initially. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition, and there's an inverse relationship between propane conversion and metal loading amount when catalysts are fully activated.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Zeolite supports, offering channel confinement, acidic sites, and electron transfer, are crucial for catalytic reactions. Acidic sites, particularly Brnsted acid sites in zeolites, play a pivotal role in alkane conversion and PDH performance. Physicochemical analysis, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments elucidate the importance of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts. The Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly affect catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr dispersion and stability, crucial for high catalytic activity. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based PDH catalysts. Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, essential for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Support modifications, such as varying crystallization temperatures, can increase Lewis acid sites and affect the distribution of surface V species, impacting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. P and Mg modifications can decrease VOx polymerization, enhance stability, and improve anti-coking capability. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both supports and active species. The activity of vanadium-based catalysts is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and different supports can affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions are influenced by the impregnation sequence on the support material. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, affecting the nature and density of active sites. Electrostatic fields between protons or metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding in CH activation. Polarizing effects enhance CH activation and increase with charge magnitude and ionic radius. Modifying framework atoms can create a CH polarization effect. Active sites, such as alkoxide intermediates and charge balancing protons, are crucial for CH activation. Proton site control can enhance alkene selectivity. Weaker proton sites in borosilicate zeolites improve selectivity compared to aluminosilicate. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions but face deactivation due to coke formation. Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 exhibits high stability and dispersion, minimizing side reactions. Acid sites on supports promote undesired reactions. Potassium in commercial catalysts reduces protonic site influence on selectivity. Cu-Al framework materials show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. Redox properties of metal centers may play a role in achieving dehydrogenation at 350 C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxides' stability influenced by zeolite framework and larger pore sizes enhancing catalytic activity by lowering activation barriers, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal AlAl distances in zeolites, based on the Sabatier principle, minimize overall barriers. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex catalytic systems. Case studies offer insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing molecular-level information challenging to obtain experimentally. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. The existence of Au atoms in alloys increases the dissociation barrier height. PtSn alloy exhibits lower reactivity due to a deeper d-band center. PtCu catalysts suppress secondary cracking reactions, enhancing anti-coking ability. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is influenced by the zeolite framework structure.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly PDH, catalyst properties like geometric and electronic effects are critical. Strategic modification of PtGa catalysts with Pb for geometric blocking of Pt3 sites and Ca for electronic enrichment of Pt1 sites creates an ultra-stable system. This double modification synergizes geometric and electronic promotion, enhancing catalytic stability and selectivity in PDH, as evidenced by PtGaCaPb/SiO2's outstanding performance and longevity at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity impacts the electronic properties of metals in dehydrogenation reactions, affecting catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Metals like platinum can reduce acid site strength, as seen in changes to pyridine desorption and the suppression of cracking reactions on modified catalysts. This suggests support modification strategies can optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a prevalent support, enhances performance through structural stability and unsaturated Al3+ sites anchoring Pt and Ru. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 disperses Ga3+ cations, boosting PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with 27% penta-coordinated Al3+, stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, achieving high PDH efficiency. Surface-active Al3+ on hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 catalyzes non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation. Al2O3's structure, particularly surface acidity, influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Hydrothermally synthesized CoAl2O3HT catalysts offer improved PDH catalysis, demonstrating the effectiveness of support modification strategies in optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces trace medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with Pt in 2Zn/Si-Beta enhancing ammonia desorption intensity, indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation, crucial for PDH, as studied by CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns indicate BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. High surface areas and large micropore volumes suggest well-preserved microporous structures. Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. Close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Excess NaCl enhances stability and Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and moderates zeolite acidity. Washing post-calcination boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, and the order of component introduction during calcination improves Pt dispersion and stability, as evidenced by the role of NaCl and washing techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Manipulating metal-support interactions enhances Pt particle stability, as seen with Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites stabilizing atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+ penta-O-Pt bonds. Pt particles tightly anchor on oxide substrate heteroatoms, and small Pt particles in lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) create selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt particles confined at Sn single-sites in zeolite frameworks exhibit high performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallic particles confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores act as stable, high-efficiency propane dehydrogenation catalysts at high temperatures, demonstrating the effectiveness of strategic support modification.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions leading to carbon deposits. Surface structures govern coke formation, impacting propylene adsorption. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron-rich environments, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties, such as acidity and surface area, are crucial for preventing undesirable coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports with uniform pore size enhance metal particle dispersion. Alkaline metals like Li, Na, and K can poison strong acid sites, reducing coke on Al2O3. Doping Mg into Al2O3 forms stable phases, while Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinate Al atoms anchor Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Weak Pt-SiO2 interaction facilitates Pt-based bimetals formation, whereas strong Pt-CeO2 interaction traps Pt ions, with water vapor aiding coke elimination due to CeO2's redox properties. Adjustable Si/Al ratios and large surface areas in supports hinder large hydrocarbon formation, preventing coke and improving stability. Mesoporous materials like SBA-1561 and MCM-41 disperse active phases, reducing coke. MXenes and carbon materials, including carbon nanotubes and graphene, are novel supports with large surface areas and stability in various media. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability by altering metal particle characteristics and enhancing mechanical strength, anti-sintering, and anti-coking resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. Reducibility of vanadium species depends on molecular structure. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation activity. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize catalyst properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, like acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. The ion type and concentration correlate with acidity and textural properties, optimizing efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies, such as increasing Lewis acidity, promote desired chemical transformations, showcasing superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, while excessive acidity can lead to CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, such as developing nanosized supports and specific morphologies, enhance catalytic efficiency by improving diffusion.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably reduced acid centers and increased alloy formation due to Ca addition, enhance propylene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation reactions. DMRA modeling of propane conversion reveals intrinsic deactivation parameters, with the Ca-promoted catalyst showing a deactivation function of 0.05 h^-1 and residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C, outperforming the non-promoted sample (0.22 h^-1 and 0.63). Higher activation energy for the PDH reaction in the Ca-promoted catalyst, due to enhanced GeOx reduction and Pt-Ge alloy formation, initially decreases activity but improves resistance against coke, boosting steady-state performance. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Lewis acid sites from AlIII in Al2O3, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, exhibits higher activity in propane dehydrogenation. Specifically, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, featuring a high level of strong acid sites, delivers the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial use. Support modification strategies, such as enhancing the number of Lewis acid sites, can optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological traits, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica source creates silanol nests in zeolites, confirmed by spectroscopy. These nests facilitate the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles, which exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. The nanoparticles, approximately 2 nm in size, are evenly distributed, containing both Pt and Y in a 3:1 ratio. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity over 20 days, while PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl deactivates rapidly. Support modification strategies, such as the use of specific surfactants and silica sources, optimize zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, specifically chemical and morphological aspects, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 ratio 260) exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts based on HZSM-5 remains a challenge. Zeolite supports, particularly HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for reactions, with acidic sites playing a crucial role in alkane conversion. Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 are pivotal for catalytic performance, as demonstrated by physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests, and Na+ doping experiments. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance the dispersion and stability of Cr species, ensuring high catalytic activity. Brnsted acid sites increase propane adsorption and CH bond activation, significantly influencing the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods, and the development of active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. PtSn interactions vary with the impregnation sequence on support materials. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by framework shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between protons, metal ions, and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding hydride abstraction. Polarizing effects increase with cation charge and radius, enhancing CH activation. Active sites in bimolecular pathways are alkyl carbenium ions held to zeolite oxygen, while unimolecular pathways involve framework protons. Electrophilic CH activation occurs via proton and carbenium ions. CH activation on OZn2+O follows a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism, while OGa+ uses oxidative addition. Protonic site intermediates increase side reactions on Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5. Controlling proton site strength enhances alkene selectivity, with borosilicate zeolites offering weaker acidity and higher selectivity than aluminosilicates. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity, but deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote alkene readsorption, oligomerization, and aromatization. Potassium in commercial dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. Recent findings suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including the stability of metal oxides and hydrides influenced by zeolite framework structure [7], and the slight enhancement of catalytic activity by larger zeolite pore sizes lowering activation barriers [8], significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal distances between active sites, like AlAl in zeolites, can minimize overall barriers [9]. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes [19], and advancements in computational approaches enable exploration of complex catalytic systems [20].", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including geometric and electronic effects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. A strategic design concept involves modifying PtGa intermetallics with Pb for geometric blocking and Ca as an electron-donating agent, enriching Pt1 sites and suppressing side reactions. This results in a catalyst, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, with outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C for up to 1 month, demonstrating almost no deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity significantly influences the electronic properties of supported metals like Pt, enhancing its performance with increased acidity. However, Pt's presence weakens support acid sites, affecting pyridine desorption and suppressing cracking reactions in decalin ring opening, crucial for reactions requiring both metal and acid active sites. Strategic support modification can optimize these properties for improved catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Al2O3's structural stability and surface acidity, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites on γ-Al2O3 anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru, enhancing catalytic activity. Ga2O3 interaction with Al2O3 boosts PDH activity and stability. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets, with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites, disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters, improving PDH performance. Surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and activation. Support modification strategies, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3 interaction, optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst acidity, assessed by NH3-TPD, reveals parent H-Beta with weak and strong acid sites, while Si-Beta lacks acid sites post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced ammonia desorption on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta due to Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy shows small aggregates of 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta with close contact between Pt and Zn species. Infrared spectroscopy confirms Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns confirm BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn addition. Surface area and micropore volume analysis show well-preserved structures. Notably, Pt introduction doesn't alter Zn dispersion. The robust PDH catalyst, Pt-Zn/Si-Beta, benefits from close Pt-Zn contact and electronic interaction, optimizing catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably excess NaCl, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions by enhancing stability and Pt dispersion while reducing zeolite acidity. Post-calcination washing further boosts activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds, optimizing Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions boost Pt particle stability, critical for dehydrogenation catalysis. Al2O3's Al3+ penta sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt, while lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) or Sn single-sites in zeolites stabilize Pt particles, improving propane dehydrogenation selectivity and stability. Confined PtSn bimetallic particles in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores create stable, high-temperature propane dehydrogenation catalysts, with efficiency linked to mesopore confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, while unsaturated Pt atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Support acidity and coke mobility are crucial for inhibiting coke. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron richness, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Supports with controlled acidity, high surface area, and uniform pore size improve metal dispersion and prevent coke. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites, enhancing stability. Each support has unique effects on catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio influences vanadium species formation, affecting catalytic activity. MgO addition enhances dehydrogenation selectivity by reducing coke formation. Silica doping of alumina support improves vanadium oxide catalyst stability and activity. Optimal molybdenum oxide activity is achieved with monolayer coverage on alumina. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Ga2O3, particularly β-Ga2O3, has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites for dehydrogenation activity. Coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations are crucial for dehydrogenation. Zeolitic support with low medium and strong acid sites leads to the most active and stable GaO3/H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Promotion with potassium decreases activity, indicating acidic groups catalyze the reaction. Mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide has increased resistance to coking. Potassium reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Platinum acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. The nature of active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Molybdenum oxide can exist as monomers, polymers, or crystallites, depending on loading, support, and preparation conditions. Hydrogen reduction of catalyst increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. Alumina is the most common support, and its interaction with the active phase profoundly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Noble metals, particularly platinum, are preferred for their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. The addition of alkaline metals like lithium, sodium, and potassium can poison acid sites on the support, suppressing coke formation. Zirconia is an alternative support that has been investigated, offering low surface acidity and enhanced sintering resistance. Silica requires a high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide precursors have also been studied for nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The acidity of the support material, such as in chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, can significantly affect catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, crucially affect dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. Optimal efficiency is achieved with 0.025 M-Na+ ions, linked to acidity and textural properties. Post-synthetic strategies that create stronger Lewis acidic sites improve catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, promoting desired reactions and avoiding undesired pathways like dehydration and isomerization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and stability, significantly influence selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Morphological qualities affect diffusion efficiency. Proper acidity is crucial for PDH reactions, with excessive acidity leading to negative effects such as CC cracking. Lewis acid sites in zeolites are preferred for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies, like developing nanosized supports and synthesizing specific morphologies, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including acid strength and alloy formation, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. Adding Ca to Al2O3 reduces acid centers, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The DMRA model reveals intrinsic deactivation parameters, showing that the Ca-promoted catalyst exhibits lower deactivation (0.05 h-1) and higher residual activity (0.82) at 600 C, indicating better resistance against coke formation. The PDH reaction's activation energy slightly increases in the promoted catalyst, enhancing Pt-Ge alloy formation, which initially decreases activity but improves steady-state performance in terms of both activity and selectivity. Support modification, such as Ca addition, optimizes catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2020.126656"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, significantly affect dehydrogenation reactions. The unsaturated AlIII site in Al2O3 acts as a Lewis acid site, crucial for the catalytic cycle. γ-Al2O3, with more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3, shows higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, as the conversion rate is directly linked to the number of Lewis acid sites. Notably, the γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst, with a high level of strong acid sites, demonstrates the highest yield and is regenerable, making it sustainable for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00779J"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Synthesizing with a diammonium-type bromide surfactant and sodium-free silica creates silanol nests in zeolites, crucial for the formation of Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit high catalytic durability, propane conversion, and propylene selectivity. Pt3Y shows fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption at room temperature, unlike monometallic Pt. PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH outperform PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in durability, with PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br maintaining high performance over 20 days. The spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst has 37 wt% coke deposition. Strategic support modification, like using specific surfactants and silica sources, optimizes zeolite properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity in dehydrogenation reactions. Propane conversion initially exceeds equilibrium values, and there's an inverse relationship between conversion and metal loading amount once catalysts are fully activated.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "CrOx on high-silica HZSM-5, synthesized by wet impregnation, exhibits high activity and selectivity for PDH, with Cr species and Brnsted acid sites playing crucial roles. Achieving high selectivity and stability in PDH catalysts remains challenging. Zeolite supports, especially HZSM-5, provide a unique environment for catalytic reactions, with Brnsted acid sites enhancing propane adsorption and activation. Cr loading and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio significantly influence catalytic performance. The high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 enhance Cr species dispersion and stability, ensuring high activity and stability. Zeolites, with tunable acidity, are ideal supports for Cr-based catalysts in PDH. Selecting appropriate supports is critical for optimizing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst physicochemical properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of supports, like Al2O3, influences VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites and increases active V3+ species, improving catalytic performance and anti-coking capability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. Developing active, selective, and stable catalysts is essential for dehydrogenation's viability. Support modification strategies, such as using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Promoters can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on supports and active species. The activity is dependent on the VO-support bond strength, and different supports affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. Zeolite frameworks exert dispersive forces on reactants, influenced by the framework's shape and active site density. Recent studies show that electrostatic fields between metal ions and oxygen species can polarize hydrocarbon bonds, aiding CH activation. Polarization effects increase with cation charge and radius, and should not catalyze alkene products. Creating CH polarization on zeolite frameworks by modifying framework atoms can enhance catalytic activity. Active sites, formed in situ, involve alkyl carbenium ions and framework protons, with electrophilic CH activation. Proton site strength can be controlled to improve alkene selectivity, with weaker sites in borosilicate zeolites yielding higher selectivity. Eliminating proton sites in zeolites is crucial for high alkene selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts are versatile for alkane reactions due to their activity, stability, and selectivity, but deactivation by coke formation remains a challenge. Acid sites on supports promote side reactions. Promoting Pt with metals like Sn, Ga, Zn, and Re improves stability but can lead to faster deactivation than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5. Potassium in commercial catalysts minimizes protonic site effects on alkene selectivity. A recent study suggests a porous copper-aluminum framework material outperforms PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, indicating potential for lower temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including metal oxide stability influenced by the zeolite framework and optimal AlAl distance for minimum barrier height, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Larger zeolite pore sizes lower activation barriers, enhancing catalytic activity. The Sabatier principle guides the determination of optimal distances between active sites. Theoretical studies aim to identify ideal catalysts for specific processes, leveraging advancements in computational methods to explore complex systems. Case studies offer molecular-level insights into dehydrogenation mechanisms, revealing aspects not easily attainable experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH), catalyst properties including geometric and electronic effects are critical. The strategic modification of PtGa nanoparticles with Pb and Ca optimizes these properties, leading to an ultra-stable catalytic system. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density of Pt1 sites, effectively suppressing side reactions. This double modification strategy significantly enhances catalytic stability and selectivity in PDH, as evidenced by outstanding stability for up to 1 month at high temperatures, showcasing the pivotal role of geometric and electronic effects in catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Support acidity plays a pivotal role in modifying the electronic properties of supported metals, such as Pt, in dehydrogenation reactions. Increasing acidity enhances Pt's catalytic efficiency, while the presence of Pt reduces the strength of acid sites on the support, impacting reactions that require both metal and acid active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp055754k"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, including chemical and morphological aspects, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Al2O3, a common support, enhances performance through its stability and structural advantages, particularly through coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites that anchor Pt and Ru, and the interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 that disperses Ga3+ for improved PDH activity. γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with penta-coordinated Al3+ sites stabilize PtSn nanoclusters, boosting PDH efficiency. Hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 activates non-oxidative isobutane dehydrogenation, and surface acidity at low-coordinated Al sites influences propane adsorption and coke deposition. Support modification strategies, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga2O3-Al2O3 interaction, optimize catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "NH3-TPD analysis revealed that H-Beta has weak and strong acid sites, whereas Si-Beta lacks acidity post-dealumination. Pt introduces medium acid sites, and Zn adds Lewis acid sites, with enhanced acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta indicating strong Pt-Zn interaction. Electron microscopy showed 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as small aggregates with close Pt-Zn contact. Infrared spectroscopy confirmed Pt-Zn species formation post-metal incorporation. The local electronic environment of Pt, crucial for PDH, was studied via CO adsorption FTIR. XRD patterns showed BEA topology with intensity decline after Zn introduction. All samples maintained high surface areas and large micropore volumes, indicating preserved microporous structure. Pt introduction did not alter Zn dispersion. The close contact and electronic interaction between Pt-Zn species make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2020.08.058"},
{"DOC": "In dehydrogenation reactions, catalyst properties, including chemical qualities and morphology, are crucial. Excess NaCl boosts MFI-zeolite stability for propane dehydrogenation, enhances Pt dispersion, prevents sintering, and suppresses acidity. Post-calcination washing increases activity and stability by redistributing water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. Optimizing Pt dispersion and stability involves controlling external surface acid sites, Na/Pt ratios, calcination temperatures, and component introduction order.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010"},
{"DOC": "Enhanced metal-support interactions stabilize Pt particles, critical for dehydrogenation. Al2O3's Al3+ sites anchor atomically dispersed Pt via Al3+-O-Pt bonds. Pt is tightly bound to oxide substrate heteroatoms, and lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) yields selective, stable Pt-Sn catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Pt confined at Sn single-sites in zeolites shows high performance due to strong Pt-Sn-zeolite interactions. PtSn bimetallics confined in hierarchical ZSM-5 mesopores are stable at high temperatures, with efficiency linked to particle confinement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2021.11.020"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably Pt atom coordination and surface structures, significantly influence dehydrogenation reactions. Saturated Pt atoms favor propane dehydrogenation, whereas unsaturated atoms catalyze side reactions, leading to carbon deposition. Surface structures govern propylene adsorption and coke formation. Strategies to inhibit coke include geometric separation, electron enrichment, poisoning acid sites, cofeeding streams, enhancing oxygen mobility, and coke transfer. Support properties like acidity and surface area are crucial; controlling acidity prevents coke and alkane isomerization. High surface area supports enhance metal dispersion. Alkaline metals and Mg doping can poison strong acid sites. Al2O3 nanosheets and CeO2 offer stability and redox properties, respectively. SiO2 supports weakly interact with Pt, allowing bimetal formation. Mesoporous materials and MXenes disperse active phases, reducing coke. Carbon materials, like nanotubes and graphene, provide large surface areas and stability. Each support uniquely affects catalytic properties, influencing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst performance in dehydrogenation reactions is influenced by physicochemical properties. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines vanadium species formation, with monomeric species below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric species between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 at higher loadings. The reducibility of vanadium species, depending on molecular structure, affects catalytic performance. MgO addition improves selectivity by reducing coke formation, while silica doping of alumina support enhances catalyst stability and activity. Hydrogen reduction increases conversion but decreases selectivity due to acid site formation. The structure of the support, such as mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide, increases resistance to coking. K addition reduces coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites. Pt acts as a promoter for GaOx, enhancing conversion and selectivity by assisting hydrogen desorption. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, such as acid strength, stability, and morphology, are pivotal in dehydrogenation reactions. Alkali-metal ion modification on Zr-Al-Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance by enhancing resistance to deactivation and coking, optimizing efficiency. Post-synthetic strategies create stronger Lewis acidic sites, promoting desired reactions and minimizing undesired pathways. This modification results in superior catalytic activity, water tolerance, and reusability, as demonstrated in the conversion of cinnamaldehyde to 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.07.002"},
{"DOC": "Catalyst properties, notably acid strength and morphology, significantly impact dehydrogenation reactions. Proper acidity is essential for CH activation and propylene desorption in PDH, with excessive acidity causing CC cracking. Zeolites' Lewis acid sites are optimal for propane dehydrogenation. Support modification strategies aim to enhance catalytic efficiency and selectivity by improving diffusion efficiency through nanosized supports and specific morphologies, as summarized in Table 3.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_4"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    