<quotes>

[1] "Although it is generally accepted that numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective."
[2] "In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified."
[3] "Therefore, every Pt surface atom is active for propane dehydrogenation, but the geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states can significantly influence the propylene adsorption and the potential side reactions."
[4] "A first-order deactivation model is usually used to evaluate the catalyst stability:73 kd = (ln[(1  Xfinal)/Xfinal]  ln[(1  Xinitial)/Xinitial])/t (6) where Xinitial represents the conversion measured in the initial period, Xfinal represents the conversion measured in the final period of an experiment, and t is the reaction time (h). kd represents the deactivation rate constant (h1); the higher the kd value is, the faster deactivation and lower stability are realized."
[5] "The aforementioned deactivation phenomena have a crucial influence on the catalytic performance. Therefore, for the design of catalytic systems with promoted performance, inhibition of deactivation can serve as an important requirement."
[6] "A number of synthetic strategies for inhibiting the deactivation have been shown, which can be classified in accordance with the modification of supports, metals and treatments (Fig. 12b)."
[7] "In the following sections, we will introduce the deactivation mechanisms and the inhibition strategies."
[8] "The complex structures and pretreatment of metal oxides make it difficult to reveal the nature of the active sites, especially under the reaction conditions. Further in situ or operando characterization methods should be used to reveal the active sites."
[9] "Therefore, the dehydrogenation is different and complex over different metal oxides. Additionally, at present, the identification of dehydrogenation pathways can only be achieved with the help of theoretical simulation. Experimental observation to reveal the reaction intermediates and pathways remains a grand challenge."
[10] "Although the catalysts recover most of their activity after each reactionregeneration cycle, the loss of activity due to the sintering in the regeneration process is not entirely reversible."
[11] "According to the dehydrogenation mechanisms on the metal oxides, controllable regulations of structures and electronic properties, as well as the supports and coverage of the reactants and coke intermediates, can therefore help inhibit the deactivation of metal oxide-based catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods by providing alternative routes for propylene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies include understanding and manipulating the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, which are still unclear from a fundamental perspective. For Pt-based catalysts, every surface atom is active for propane dehydrogenation, but the geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. A first-order deactivation model is used to evaluate catalyst stability, where the deactivation rate constant (kd) indicates the rate of deactivation and stability. Inhibition of deactivation is crucial for the design of catalytic systems with promoted performance, and synthetic strategies for inhibiting deactivation can be classified according to the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. For metal oxide-based catalysts, the complex structures and pretreatment make it difficult to reveal the nature of the active sites, especially under reaction conditions. Further in situ or operando characterization methods are needed to reveal the active sites. The dehydrogenation pathways over different metal oxides are different and complex, and identification of these pathways can only be achieved with the help of theoretical simulation. Experimental observation to reveal the reaction intermediates and pathways remains a grand challenge. Inhibition of deactivation in metal oxide-based catalysts can be achieved by controllable regulations of structures and electronic properties, as well as the supports and coverage of reactants and coke intermediates.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)技术通过提供丙烯生产的替代途径，解决了工业对丙烯需求增加和传统生产方法局限性的挑战。正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，以克服氧化性和非氧化性PDH过程中催化剂失活问题，提高稳定性和可回收性。这些策略包括理解和操纵活性位点结构和脱氢机制，这些机制从基本的角度来看仍然不清楚。对于基于Pt的催化剂，每个表面原子都对丙烷脱氢有活性，但几何协调结构和电子状态对丙烯吸附和潜在的副反应有显著影响。使用一级失活模型来评估催化剂的稳定性，其中失活速率常数(kd)指示失活速率和稳定性。为了设计具有增强性能的催化系统，抑制失活是至关重要的，抑制失活的合成策略可以根据支撑物、金属和处理的修改进行分类。对于基于金属氧化物的催化剂，复杂的结构和预处理使得在反应条件下很难揭示活性位点的本质。需要进一步的原位或操作表征方法来揭示活性位点。不同金属氧化物上的脱氢途径不同且复杂，这些途径的识别只能借助理论模拟来实现。实验观察以揭示反应中间体和途径仍然是一个巨大的挑战。通过可控的结构和电子性质调节，以及支撑物和反应物和焦炭中间体的覆盖，可以抑制基于金属氧化物的催化剂的失活。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
