<quotes>

[1] "Propylene is an important building block for enormous petrochemicals including polypropylene, propylene oxide, acrylonitrile and so forth. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an industrial technology for direct propylene production which has received extensive attention in recent years."
[2] "With the development of dehydrogenation technologies, the efficient adsorption/activation of propane and subsequential desorption of propylene on the surfaces of heterogeneous catalysts remain scientifically challenging."
[3] "This review describes recent advances in the fundamental understandings of the PDH process in terms of emerging technologies, catalyst development and new chemistry in regulating the catalyst structures and inhibiting the catalyst deactivation."
[4] "The active sites, reaction pathways and deactivation mechanisms of PDH over metals and metal oxides as well as their dependent factors are also analysed and discussed, which is expected to enable efficient catalyst design for minimizing the reaction barriers and controlling the selectivity towards propylene."
[5] "The challenges and perspectives of PDH over heterogeneous catalysts are also proposed for further development."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods by providing a direct method for propylene production. PDH has received extensive attention in recent years as an important industrial technology. However, the efficient adsorption/activation of propane and the subsequential desorption of propylene on the surfaces of heterogeneous catalysts remain scientifically challenging. Recent advances in the fundamental understandings of the PDH process, including emerging technologies, catalyst development, and new chemistry, have been described in terms of regulating catalyst structures and inhibiting catalyst deactivation. The active sites, reaction pathways, and deactivation mechanisms of PDH over metals and metal oxides, as well as their dependent factors, have been analyzed and discussed, which is expected to enable efficient catalyst design for minimizing the reaction barriers and controlling the selectivity towards propylene. The challenges and perspectives of PDH over heterogeneous catalysts have also been proposed for further development.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)技术通过提供直接的丙烯生产方法，解决了工业对丙烯需求增加和传统生产方法局限性的挑战。近年来，PDH作为一种重要的工业技术，受到了广泛关注。然而，丙烷在异质催化剂表面的有效吸附/活化以及后续丙烯的解吸仍然存在科学挑战。最近，关于PDH过程的基本理解方面的进展，包括新兴技术、催化剂开发和新化学，已经从调节催化剂结构和抑制催化剂失活的角度进行了描述。对金属和金属氧化物上PDH的活性位点、反应途径和失活机制及其相关因素进行了分析和讨论，这有望实现高效的催化剂设计，以最小化反应势垒并控制对丙烯的选择性。关于异质催化剂上的PDH的挑战和前景也已被提出，以供进一步发展。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
