<quotes>
[1] "The results are discussed and probable mechanisms for the reactions proposed."
[2] "Studies of the exchange reactions of aromatic molecules have often been undertaken in an attempt to characterise the catalytic properties of metal oxide."
[3] "The exchange of alkanes and alkenes with deuterium on magnesium oxide appears to involve intermediates with carbanionic character similar to those found for alumina."
[4] "There seems to be some parallel between magnesium oxide and titanium dioxide (rutile) for reactions of propene and toluene, although titanium dioxide is a much less active catalyst."
[5] "The exchange of toluene with C6D6 is significantly faster than the corresponding exchange with deuterium ;this suggests that adsorption-desorption processes for deuterium are not rapid in the presence of aromatic molecules and may control, at least to some extent, the rates of exchange on both oxides."
[6] "The high acidity associated with the methyl hydrogens of toluene is attributable to the considerable stabilization of the benzyl carbanion afforded by the delocalization of the negative charge on the a-carbon atom through the n-system of the ring."
[7] "The close agreement between the observed rate of exchange of the latter molecule and that predicted by the acidity of the hydrogens suggests that such drastic electronic distortion of the n-system does not in fact occur."
[8] "The increase in the rate of exchange of ring hydrogens in toluene when heavy benzene was used instead of deuterium is an effect similar to that reported by Saunders and Hightower for benzene exchange."
[9] "The initial rates of reaction in the simultaneous exchange of benzene and toluene with deuterium show a relative rate for the two molecules which is the reverse of that found in the separate exchange reactions ; the rate of exchange of benzene is reduced to a greater extent by the presence of toluene than vice versa; this effect is probably due to the relative strengths of adsorption of the two molecules."
[10] "Magnesium oxide appears to be an effective catalyst for intermolecular reactions of unsaturated hydrocarbons."
[11] "The close agreement between the observed rate of exchange of the latter molecule and that predicted by the acidity of the hydrogens suggests that such drastic electronic distortion of the n-system does not in fact occur."
[12] "The exchange of alkanes and alkenes with deuterium on magnesium oxide appears to involve intermediates with carbanionic character similar to those found for alumina."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The mechanisms for the reactions of aromatic molecules on metal oxides are discussed and proposed. The exchange reactions of alkanes and alkenes with deuterium on magnesium oxide involve carbanionic intermediates similar to those found on alumina.
2. The study aims to characterize the catalytic properties of metal oxide through examining the exchange reactions of aromatic molecules.
3. Alkanes and alkenes exchange with deuterium on magnesium oxide through intermediates with carbanionic character akin to those on alumina.
4. There exists a parallel between magnesium oxide and titanium dioxide (rutile) for reactions of propene and toluene, albeit titanium dioxide being a less active catalyst.
5. The exchange of toluene with hexadeuterobenzene is notably faster than with deuterium, suggesting that deuterium adsorption and desorption processes are sluggish in the presence of aromatic molecules, influencing exchange rates on both oxides.
6. The high acidity of toluene's methyl hydrogens is attributed to the stabilization of the benzyl carbanion through delocalization of the negative charge on the a-carbon through the ring's n-system.
7. The close match between the observed exchange rate of the toluene molecule and that predicted by hydrogen acidity indicates that the n-system's drastic electronic distortion does not occur.
8. Using heavy benzene instead of deuterium in toluene increases the rate of exchange of ring hydrogens similarly to what Saunders and Hightower observed for benzene exchange.
9. The simultaneous exchange of benzene and toluene with deuterium exhibits a reversed relative rate compared to their separate exchanges, indicating differences in adsorption strength between the molecules.
10. Magnesium oxide effectively catalyzes intermolecular reactions of unsaturated hydrocarbons.
11. The high agreement between the observed exchange rate of toluene and that predicted by hydrogen acidity suggests that the n-system's drastic electronic distortion does not occur.
12. Alkanes and alkenes exchange with deuterium on magnesium oxide through intermediates with carbanionic character similar to those on alumina.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 对金属氧化物上芳香分子反应的机制进行了讨论和提出。烷烃和烯烃在镁氧化物上的脱氘反应涉及与铝氧化物中发现的类似亲碳离子中间体。
2. 研究旨在通过考察芳香分子的交换反应来表征金属氧化物的催化性能。
3. 烷烃和烯烃在镁氧化物上的脱氘反应通过与铝氧化物中发现的类似亲碳离子中间体涉及亲碳离子。
4. 镁氧化物与钛氧化物（锐钛矿）之间在丙烯和苯乙烯反应方面存在相似性，尽管锐钛矿的活性较低。
5. 使用十六氘苯交换甲苯比使用氘更快，这表明在芳香分子存在的条件下，氘的吸附和脱附过程较慢，从而影响两种氧化物上交换速率。
6. 甲苯的甲基氢的高酸性归因于通过环的n系统的环二价碳原子上的负电荷的分散对苯基碳正离子的显著稳定化。
7. 观察到的甲苯分子的交换速率与氢酸性的预测之间的紧密一致性表明，n系统的大电子畸变实际上并未发生。
8. 与德特里亚芬相比，使用重苯代替氘增加甲苯中环氢的交换速率，类似于桑德斯和海特沃报道的苯交换。
9. 同时交换苯和甲苯与氘显示两种分子相对速率相反，在单独交换反应中的速率，表明两种分子吸附强度的不同。
10. 镁氧化物有效地催化不饱和烃的分子间反应。
11. 观察到的甲苯交换速率与氢酸性的预测之间的紧密一致性表明，n系统的大电子畸变实际上并未发生。
12. 烷烃和烯烃在镁氧化物上的脱氘反应通过与铝氧化物中发现的类似亲碳离子中间体涉及亲碳离子。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
