<quotes>
[1] "Some hydrogen-deuterium exchange reactions of benzene and alkylbenzenes on y-alumina and magnesium oxide have been investigated."
[2] "We wished to know whether the linear relationship between the ease of exchange of hydrocarbons and their acidity found for alkanes 5 9 and probably applicable to alkenes 6 ,  could be extended to include the reactions of aromatic compounds."
[3] "The exchange of alkanes and alkenes with deuterium on magnesium oxide appears to involve intermediates with carbanionic character similar to those found for alumina."
[4] "The exchange of toluene with C6D6 is significantly faster than the corresponding exchange with deuterium ;this suggests that adsorption-desorption processes for deuterium are not rapid in the presence of aromatic molecules and may control, at least to some extent, the rates of exchange on both oxides."
[5] "The close agreement between the observed rate of exchange of the latter molecule and that predicted by the acidity of the hydrogens suggests that such drastic electronic distortion of the n-system does not in fact occur."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study investigates hydrogen-deuterium exchange reactions of various hydrocarbons on alumina and magnesium oxide. The researchers aim to extend the understanding of hydrocarbon exchange kinetics to aromatic compounds, specifically looking at whether the linear relationship between hydrocarbon acidity and exchange ease observed in alkanes and alkenes applies to aromatic molecules. The exchange reactions on magnesium oxide are found to involve intermediates with carbanionic characteristics akin to those seen on alumina. The exchange rate of toluene with deuterated benzene (C6D6) is notably faster than with pure deuterium, suggesting that adsorption-desorption processes for deuterium are hindered in the presence of aromatic molecules, affecting the exchange rates on both catalysts. The close match between the observed exchange rate of benzene and that predicted by its hydrogen acidity indicates that the n-system's electronic structure is not drastically altered during the exchange process.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
该研究探讨了苯和烷基苯在氧化铝和镁氧化物上的氢氘交换反应。研究者旨在将烃酸性和交换容易性之间的线性关系从烷烃和烯烃扩展到芳香化合物，观察这种关系是否适用于芳香分子。镁氧化物上的交换反应涉及与铝氧化物相似的具有碳负离子特性的中间体。二甲苯与氘化苯（C6D6）的交换速率明显快于纯氘，这表明在芳香分子存在的情况下，氘的吸附-脱附过程受到阻碍，影响两种氧化物上的交换速率。观察到的苯的交换速率与其氢酸性预测的速率非常接近，表明在交换过程中n系统的电子结构并没有发生大幅度改变。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
