Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
A kinetic rate expression for the time-dependent coke formation
rate during propane dehydrogenation over a platinum
alumina monolithic catalyst
M. van Sint Annaland∗, J.A.M. Kuipers, W.P.M. van Swaaij
Department of Chemical Engineering, Twente University, PO Box 217, 7500 AE, Enschede, The Netherlands
Abstract
Coke formation rates under propane dehydrogenation reaction conditions on a used monolithic Pt/-Al2O3 catalyst have
been experimentally determined in a thermogravimetric analyser (TGA) as a function of time on stream covering wide
temperature and concentration ranges. For relatively short times on stream, especially at low temperatures and low propylene
concentrations, a remarkable initial quadratic increase has been observed in the coke formation rates versus time with a high
apparent propylene reaction order. After longer times on stream the coke formation rate decreases to a constant residual coke
growth above approximately 12 wt.% coke content. The experimental data have been successfully described by a kinetic
rate expression based on a mechanistic dual coke growth model. In this model it has been assumed that initially coke
precursor is formed via a propylene oligomerisation process, explaining the observed auto-catalysis for short times on stream.
© 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Kinetics; Catalyst deactivation; Platinum alumina monolithic catalyst; Coke formation rates
1. Introduction
The strong increase in the demand for lower
oleﬁns during the last decade [1] has initiated the
development of new alternative processes in addition
to traditional petrochemical or reﬁnery processes,
where lower oleﬁns are obtained as by-products.
The increased availability of lower alkanes resulting
from more strict environmental legislation has made
dehydrogenation processes economically attractive
[2]. Dehydrogenation reactions of lower alkanes are
highly endothermic and are carried out at high tem-
peratures because of thermodynamic constraints. At
these high temperatures carbonaceous deposits, col-
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail address: m.vansintannaland@ct.utwente.nl
(M. van Sint Annaland).
lectively termed coke, are rapidly formed and as a
consequence thereof catalyst deactivation prevails
necessitating catalyst regeneration. These difﬁcult
process features require dedicated reactor technology.
A novel multifunctional reactor is developed for the
non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation. Using a ﬁxed
monolithic catalyst as an energy repository, an indirect
coupling is achieved between energy necessary for the
endothermic propane dehydrogenation and energy re-
leased by the combustion with air of the formed coke
and added hydrocarbons for overall energy balance.
Secondly, recuperative heat exchange is integrated in-
side the reactor using the concept of reverse ﬂow, i.e.
periodic change of the gas ﬂow direction while feeding
the reactants without any preheating. In this reaction
coupling reverse ﬂow reactor (RCRFR), the propane
dehydrogenation reaction, energy supply at high tem-
peratures, catalyst regeneration and recuperative heat
0920-5861/01/$ – see front matter © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII: S0920-5861(00)00640-4
428
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
exchange are all integrated in one apparatus. Infor-
mation on the total amount of coke deposited on the
catalyst and its distribution along the axial coordinate
as a function of time at given operating conditions is
indispensable for operation and optimisation of this
reactor in order to assess the contribution of the com-
bustion of the formed coke relative to the combus-
tion of added hydrocarbons to the total energy supply
for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation. Thus,
this work focuses on the coke formation rate during
propane dehydrogenation. The effect of the coke de-
posits on the propane dehydrogenation reaction rate
was considered separately [3].
Catalyst deactivation during propane dehydrogena-
tion over platinum alumina catalysts has received
considerable attention in the past few years [4,5].
However, the research has mainly focussed on the
effect of tin addition to platinum catalysts, especially
on the extent of reduction of intrinsic catalytic activity
caused by the coke deposits. Although the effects of
operating conditions have been identiﬁed qualitatively,
no complete quantitatively predictive time-dependent
coke formation rate equation has been published for
the propane dehydrogenation over wide temperature
and concentration ranges. For the 1-butene dehydro-
genation to 1,3-butadiene over a Cr2O3/Al2O3 cata-
lyst, however, extensive models have been developed
describing the time-dependent coke formation rate as
a function of the operating conditions [6,7]. The aim
of this work is to derive a kinetic rate expression to de-
scribe quantitatively the total amount of coke deposits
in time on a platinum alumina monolithic catalyst
under propane dehydrogenation reaction conditions.
2. Experimental
Experiments were carried out in a TGA operated
under differential isothermal reactor conditions at at-
mospheric pressure. In a quartz tubular reactor a small
sample (ca. 5 mm × 5 mm × 2 mm, approximately
80 mg) of a commercial Pt/-Al2O3
monolithic
cordierite catalyst, supplied by Engelhard, was con-
nected with a platinum wire to the balance. Using SEM
analysis the average channel diameter was determined
at 956 m, the support thickness at 189 m and the av-
erage washcoat thickness at 37 m (11–89 m). In the
washcoat 1.5 g Pt/l monolith was dispersed. In each ex-
periment the catalyst sample was heated to the desired
reaction temperature (600–800◦C) under a nitrogen
ﬂow. Using a four-way valve a propylene–hydrogen–
nitrogen gas mixture was introduced, whose composi-
tion and total ﬂow (1–10 N cm3/s) was set using mass
ﬂow controllers (Brooks). GC analysis of the exit
gases conﬁrmed minor conversion of the reactants.
After a certain time on stream the four-way valve
was switched back to purge the reactor and subse-
quently air was introduced to regenerate the catalyst
sample by combusting the coke deposits. By these
repeated alternations between dehydrogenation and
combustion reaction conditions coke formation rates
were determined on the monolithic sample under re-
action conditions analogous to those in an RCRFR.
Furthermore, use of the same catalyst sample enables
direct comparison of different experiments. Fig. 1
shows the good reproducibility of the experiments
except for an experiment starting with a fresh sample,
which is probably caused by sintering or permanent
destruction of the most active sites or pores by coke
deposits during the ﬁrst few experiments, conﬁrmed
by the decrease in BET area (35–16 m2/g monolith)
and increase in average pore diameter (11.2–16.7 nm).
The ﬁgure conﬁrms absence of further deactivation
for coke formation after only a few experiments.
Absence of mass transfer limitations was veri-
ﬁed by comparing coke formation rates on the same
used monolithic sample for propylene–nitrogen and
propylene–helium gas mixtures with equal propy-
lene concentration at high temperatures. Since nearly
identical coking rates were obtained mass transfer
limitations can safely be excluded.
2.1. Experimental results
Firstly, it has been conﬁrmed that coke deposits dur-
ing propane dehydrogenation originate almost solely
from propylene (see Fig. 1). Furthermore, compara-
ble coke formation rates are obtained for pure propy-
lene on monolith samples with and without platinum
dispersed in the washcoat, suggesting that most of
the carbonaceous products is formed on acid sites of
the -Al2O3 washcoat. The higher coking rates under
pure propane atmosphere on the sample with platinum
compared to the sample without platinum is probably
caused by a small conversion of propane to propylene
at the platinum surface sites.
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
429
Fig. 1. Coke content versus time for pure propane or propylene on monolithic samples with and without platinum dispersed in the washcoat
at 650◦C.
Coke formation rates have been determined as a
function of time for different propylene–nitrogen and
propylene–hydrogen gas mixtures at different temper-
atures on monolithic samples with platinum dispersed
in the washcoat. Some illustrative experimental results
of the complex coke formation process are shown in
Figs. 2–4 and are shortly described below.
A very strong inﬂuence of the reaction temperature
has been observed (see Fig. 2). Clearly visible is the
marked abrupt decrease in the coking rates when the
Fig. 2. Coke content versus time for pure propylene feeds at different reactor temperatures.
coke content reaches about 12 wt.% of the total weight
of the monolith sample, independent of the reaction
temperature. Apparently, the coke formation reaction
deactivates itself when the catalyst surface becomes
coked after longer times on stream, but a residual
coking activity remains. This has also been observed
by Dumez and Froment [8] and Peña et al. [7] in their
studies on coke formation rates from 1-butene over a
Cr2O3/-Al2O3 catalyst, however, with a more grad-
ual deactivation when the coke concentration reached
430
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
Fig. 3. Coke content versus time as a function of the propylene gas phase mole fraction for propylene–nitrogen (a) and propylene–hydrogen
(b) at 600◦C.
about 5 wt.%. For relatively long times on stream the
coke formation rate has become constant and ﬁrst
order in the propylene gas phase concentration. The
hydrogen concentration did not inﬂuence the resid-
ual coking activity, as also observed by Peña et al.
[7].
In Fig. 3 the inﬂuence of the propylene concentra-
tion in propylene–nitrogen and propylene–hydrogen
gas mixtures on the coke formation rates at 600◦C is
shown. A remarkable increase in the coke formation
rates in time can be observed from the increasing
slope of the coke content versus time curve, for
both propylene–nitrogen and propylene–hydrogen gas
mixtures and especially at lower propylene concen-
trations. An excellent linear regression ﬁt is obtained
from the coke content versus time squared. The
apparent reaction order of the coking process with re-
spect to the propylene concentration is strikingly high,
especially for propylene–hydrogen gas mixtures at
relatively short times on stream at lower temperatures.
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
431
Fig. 4. Maximum coke formation rates versus the gas phase propylene mole fraction for propylene–nitrogen (closed marks) and
propylene–hydrogen (open marks) mixtures at 600◦C (a) and 800◦C (b).
However, the apparent reaction order in the propylene
concentration decreases for longer times on stream or
with increasing temperature, which corresponds to a
higher coking of the catalyst surface. For propylene–
hydrogen mixtures the maximum apparent reaction or-
der decreases from as high as 6 at 500 s at 600◦C, to 4
at 100 s at 700◦C, to 1 at 500 s at 700◦C or 50 s at
800◦C. Lower reaction orders were found for propy-
lene–nitrogen mixtures, e.g. from 2 at 500 s at 600◦C,
to 1 at 50 s and 0.7 at 100 s at 600◦C, to 0.6 at 50 s at
800◦C.
Furthermore, Fig. 3 also clearly shows the very
strong inﬂuence of the hydrogen concentration on the
coking rates. For example, for a 60% propylene–40%
nitrogen mixture a coke content of 1.6 wt.% was
obtained after 1000 s at 600◦C, while for a 60%
propylene–40% hydrogen mixture the coke content
reached only 0.16 wt.% after 1000 s at 600◦C, which
432
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
is one order of magnitude lower. Also, even small
concentrations of hydrogen can suppress the coke
formation rates enormously. However, the inﬂuence
of the hydrogen decreases considerably at higher re-
action temperatures as evident from Fig. 4, where
the maximum observed coking rates are plotted as
a function of the propylene concentration for both
propylene–nitrogen and propylene–hydrogen mix-
tures at different temperatures. Despite the large
differences in coking with and without hydrogen
at lower temperatures, the maximum coking rates
of propylene–hydrogen mixtures approach those of
propylene–nitrogen at 800◦C.
Finally, it has been tried to regenerate the catalyst
by hydrogen treatment. It was not possible to decrease
the coke content under a hydrogen atmosphere, not
even at 800◦C. This is in accordance with ﬁndings of
Larsson et al. [5].
3. Kinetic model
A kinetic rate expression is developed based on a,
as simple as possible, mechanistic model but able to
quantitatively describe the above-mentioned exper-
imental observations. The basic assumptions are as
follows:
1. All coke deposits originate from propylene; coke
formation from propane can be neglected.
2. Most of the coke deposits is formed at acid -Al2O3
surface sites.
3. The internal catalyst structure is not taken into
account, assuming that the smallest pores are
Table 1
Proposed coke formation mechanism
Adsorption equilibria
1
2 H2(g) + S
KH
⇄H(s)
C3H6(g) + S
KC
⇄C3H6(s)
Dimerisation
C3H6(s) + C3H6(s)
kR
→PD
Coke precursor formation
PD + C3H6(s)
kCP
→CP + S
Cm + C3H6(s)
kCP,1
→Cm + CP
Cm + PD
kCP,2
→Cm + CP
Monolayer coke formation
CP →· · ·
C3H6(s)/PD
→
· · · →· · · Cm
Multilayer coke formation
Cm + C3H6(g)
kCM
→CM
CM + C3H6(g)
kCM
→CM
blocked in the very early stages of the coke for-
mation process resulting in a negligible amount of
coke deposits in these smallest pores [6]. The use-
fulness of this assumption has also been demon-
strated by Peña et al. [7].
4. Following Peña et al. [7] and Marin et al. [6] the
marked sudden decrease in the coke formation rate
when the coke concentration reaches ca. 12 wt.%
is attributed to two different stages in the coke
formation process. In the ﬁrst stage carbonaceous
compounds are formed at the catalyst surface from
a coke precursor (CP), which originates from ad-
sorbed propylene. These coke deposits are termed
monolayer coke, since it is formed directly on
the catalyst surface. The second stage consists of
growth of these monolayer coke deposits to mul-
tilayer coke. The terminology of monolayer and
multilayer coke does not necessarily stand for coke
growth in layers. The principal difference in these
coke formation stages is merely the assumption that
monolayer coke (Cm) is formed through reaction
of CP with adsorbed propylene, while multilayer
coke (CM) is formed via reaction of monolayer
coke with propylene directly from the gas phase.
5. Following Marin et al. [6] it is assumed that the
formation of CP is the rate determining step in
the coke formation process and the CP grows
instantaneously to monolayer coke with adsorbed
propylene molecules.
Table 2
Adsorption and reaction rate constants and their activation energies
for the coke formation model in Table 1
Pre-exponential constant
KC,∞
1.24 × 10−1 m3 mol−1
KH,∞
1.97 × 10−3 m1.5 mol−0.5
Kr,∞
3.55 × 108 s−1
kCP,∞
6.69 × 105 s−1
kCP,1,∞
1.65 × 100 s−1
kCP,2,∞
3.32 × 105 s−1
kCM,∞
4.30 × 104 m3 mol−1 s−1 mg mg−1
cat
w
0.12 mg mgcat
Activation energy
EC
−0.449 kJ mol−1
EH
−47.1 kJ mol−1
ER
186 kJ mol−1
ECP
147 kJ mol−1
ECP,1
46.8 kJ mol−1
ECP,2
156 kJ mol−1
ECM
200 kJ mol−1
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
433
6. The auto-catalytic behaviour of the coke forma-
tion process for short times on stream is attributed
to the formation of an intermediary product in
the formation of CP. From the initial quadratic
increase in the coke content versus time it can be
concluded that there is only one rate determining
intermediary product in the CP formation.
7. Because of the high apparent reaction order in the
propylene concentration observed for the coke for-
mation rate for relatively short times on stream, it is
tentatively proposed that coke deposits are formed
through an oligomerisation process, as proposed
by Hamid and Cerouane [9]. From dimerisation
of adsorbed propylene an intermediary product is
formed, possibly hexene or an even further de-
hydrogenated or aromatised product. From the
reaction of this propylene dimer (PD) with another
adsorbed propylene molecule a CP is formed. It
is assumed that CPs can also be formed from the
reaction of monolayer coke with adsorbed propy-
lene or PD. This last assumption is necessary to
describe the very sudden marked transition from
primarily monolayer coke formation to only mul-
tilayer coke formation for longer times on stream.
8. It is assumed that propylene and hydrogen adsorb
competitively at the same surface sites, assuming
that hydrogen chemisorbs dissociatively at these
surface sites and that the adsorption equilibria
are established instantaneously. The decreased in-
ﬂuence of the hydrogen concentration at higher
temperatures is explained by a decreased hydrogen
chemisorption at the catalyst surface sites. Again
following Dumez and Froment [8] and Peña et al.
[7] it is assumed that the deactivation reaction in-
volves two surface sites, so that CP and monolayer
coke occupy two surface sites.
The
above
outlined
coke
formation
model,
obviously a tentatively proposed simpliﬁcation of the
complex coke formation processes, is summarised in
Table 1. It is emphasised here that the proposed mech-
anism aims only at giving information about the reac-
tion rate of the rate determining steps. No details about
the precise structure of the species involved and the
actual chemical transformations taking place at the cat-
alyst surface are included in this model. All species in-
volved could undergo further reactions, like cracking,
dehydrogenation or cyclisation. Even about the order
in which these reactions can take place (ﬁrst dimerisa-
tion, then dehydrogenation or the other way around),
the proposed mechanism does not give speciﬁcs. The
assumption in the proposed kinetic model is that the
effects of these additional reactions can be lumped
in ‘overall’ reaction rate constants of the rate de-
termining steps. For instance, ‘adsorbed propylene’
should be considered as a species originating from
the adsorption of propylene from the gas phase.
3.1. Coke formation rate equation
The increase in coke content, MC, in time is given
by the sum of the monolayer and multilayer coke
production rates, thus:
∂MC
∂t
= ∂MCm
∂t
+ ∂MCm
∂t
= w∂θCm
∂t
+ kCMCg,C3H6θCm
introducing w as the maximum monolayer coke
concentration. The fraction of the total surface sites
occupied by PD, θPD, and monolayer coke, θCm, are
described by the following balances,
∂θPD
∂t
= kRθ2
C3H6 −kCPθC3H6θPD −kCP,2θPDθCm,
∂θCm
∂t
= ∂θCP
∂t
= kCPθC3H6θPD + kCP,1θC3H6θCm
+kCP,2θPDθCm
and the surface fractions of the free surface sites, θS,
dissociatively chemisorbed hydrogen, θH, and propy-
lene, θC3H6, respectively, by the following algebraic
equations:
θS =
(1 −θPD −θCm)
1 + KHC1/2
g,H2 + KCCg,C3H6
,
θH =
KHC1/2
g,H2(1 −θPD −θCm)
1 + KHC1/2
g,H2 + KCCg,C3H6
,
θC3H6 = KCCg,C3H6(1 −θPD −θCm)
1 + KHC1/2
g,H2 + KCCg,C3H6
Initially, the catalyst surface is free of any coke
components (t = 0 : θPD = θCm = MC = 0).
For relatively short times on stream the kinetic rate
expression for the coke formation rate can be simpli-
434
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
Fig. 5. Comparison of experimentally determined (marks) and theoretically predicted (lines) coke formation rates for propylene–nitrogen
(a) and propylene–hydrogen (b) mixtures at 600◦C.
ﬁed and solved analytically, giving the following for
the coke content as a function of time:
MC(t) = w

kRθ2
C3H6,0t
1 + kRθ2
C3H6,0t −
1 −(1 + kRθ2
C3H6,0t)−((kCP/kRθC3H6,0)−1)
(1 + kRθ2
C3H6,0t)((kCP/kRθC3H6,0) −1)

≈1
2wkRkCPθ3
C3H6,0t2
where θC3H6,0 denotes the initial propylene surface
fraction. A Taylor series expansion of the coke con-
tent as a function of time around t = 0 shows the
experimentally observed second order time depen-
dency of the coke content and the observed high
apparent propylene reaction order.
The experimentally determined coke formation
rates as a function of time for different propylene–
nitrogen and propylene–hydrogen mixtures at different
temperatures have been used to ﬁt the adsorption and
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
435
Fig. 6. Model results for the surface fractions and monolayer (MCm), multilayer (MCM) and total coke content (MC) for a 50% propylene–50%
hydrogen mixture at 600◦C.
reaction rate constants in the coke formation model,
assuming an Arrhenius-type temperature dependency.
The complete set of experimentally determined coke
formation rates — not the coke content in order to
avoid cumulative errors — at different times on stream
and different temperatures has been ﬁtted simultane-
ously using the multivariable Levenberg–Marquardt
algorithm. The maximum monolayer coke concentra-
tion has been ﬁxed at 12 wt.% and the pre-exponential
multilayer coke formation rate constant kCM,∞and
the multilayer coke formation activation energy ECM
has been directly obtained from an Arrhenius plot,
using the slope of the coke content versus time curve
at large times on stream after the sudden marked de-
crease in coke formation rate, i.e. for w > 12 wt.%.
The regression results are presented in Table 2. In
Fig. 5 the ﬁtted and experimentally determined coke
formation rates at 600◦C are plotted as a function of
the propylene gas phase mole fraction. Model results
for the case of a 50% propylene and 50% hydrogen
gas mixture at 600◦C are presented in Fig. 6.
4. Conclusions
Experimentally determined coke formation rates as
a function of time on stream for propylene–nitrogen
and propylene–hydrogen gas mixtures in a TGA
over a used Pt/-Al2O3 monolithic catalyst can be
adequately described using a mechanistic dual coke
growth model following Peña et al. [7] and Marin
et al. [6]. This model has been extended by assuming
that the rate determining CP formation initially occurs
via propylene oligomerisation. Based on this mech-
anistic model (see Table 1) a kinetic rate expression
has been derived and the adsorption and reaction rate
constants and activation energies have been ﬁtted us-
ing the Levenberg–Marquardt multivariable algorithm
(see Table 2). The kinetic rate expression quantita-
tively describes the coke formation rates over a wide
temperature range (600–800◦C) and wide concen-
tration range (at least 0–50% propylene in nitrogen
or hydrogen). The model satisfactorily describes the
remarkable initial quadratic increase in the coke for-
mation rates versus time (auto-catalysis) with its high
apparent propylene reaction order, and the decrease
in coke formation rates after longer times on stream
(auto-deactivation), with a constant residual coke for-
mation rate when the coke content exceeds 12 wt.%.
Also the observed very pronounced inﬂuence of the
hydrogen concentration is quantitatively captured
by the model. The derived kinetic rate expression
provides valuable information for the design and
optimisation of propane dehydrogenation reactors.
Acknowledgements
The authors wish to thank H. bij de Vaate for her
valuable contribution to the experimental work and
436
M. van Sint Annaland et al. / Catalysis Today 66 (2001) 427–436
W. Leppink for the construction and maintenance
of the TGA. Furthermore, the ﬁnancial support by
the Netherlands Organisation for Scientiﬁc Research
(NWO) is gratefully acknowledged.
References
[1] J. Cosyns, J. Chodorge, D. Commereuc, B. Torck, Maximize
propylene production, Hydrocarb. Process. (March 1998)
61–66.
[2] D.E. Resasco, G.L. Haller, Catalytic dehydrogenation of lower
alkanes, J. Catal. 11 (1994) 379–411.
[3] M. van Sint Annaland, A novel reverse ﬂow reactor coupling
endothermic and exothermic reactions, Ph.D. Thesis, Twente
University, Enschede, the Netherlands, 2000.
[4] O.A. Bariås, A. Holmen, E.A. Blekkan, Propane dehydro-
genation over supported Pt and Pt–Sn catalysts: catalyst
preparation, characterization, and activity measurements, J.
Catal. 158 (1996) 1–12.
[5] M. Larsson, M. Hultén, E.A. Blekkan, B. Andersson, The
effect of reaction conditions and time on stream on the coke
formed during propane dehydrogenation, J. Catal. 164 (1996)
44–53.
[6] G.B. Marin, J.W. Beeckman, G.F. Froment, Rigorous kinetic
models for catalyst deactivation by coke deposition: applica-
tion to butene dehydrogenation, J. Catal. 97 (1986) 416–426.
[7] J.A. Peña, A. Monzón, J. Santamar´
ıa, Deactivation by coke
of a Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalyst during butene dehydrogenation, J.
Catal. 142 (1993) 59–69.
[8] F.J. Dumez, G.F. Froment, Dehydrogenation of 1-butene into
butadiene. Kinetics, catalyst coking, and reactor design, Ind.
Eng. Chem. Process. Des. Dev. 15 (1976) 291–301.
[9] S.B.A. Hamid, E.G. Cerouane, Effect of temperature on
propane
aromatisation
by
Ga–H–MFI(Si,
Al)
catalysts,
Zeolites Related Micropor. Mater.: State of the Art 84 (1994)
2335–2344.
