<quotes>

[1] "Because dehydrogenation for the production of light olefins has become extremely relevant in recent times, we aim to provide the reader with a complete overview of the materials used to catalyze this reaction."
[2] "Indeed, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[3] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[4] "Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply."
[5] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[6] "The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[7] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[8] "In fact, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[9] "The high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
[10] "The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the high-energy demands of the processes, low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices. These challenges are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies. The opportunities include the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, the favorable market conditions for propane dehydrogenation due to the price difference between propane and propylene, and the advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes. Researchers are addressing the need for catalysts with high-temperature stability, propylene selectivity, and resistance to side reactions by optimizing industrial dehydrogenation processes to produce olefins of polymer-quality purity and by searching for more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)用于工业丙烯生产的主要挑战包括过程的高能耗需求、对特定烯烃生产的选择性低、石油储备的减少和油价上涨。这些挑战正在推动石化行业寻找更经济的原料和更有效的转化技术。机遇包括美国从石油基石脑油转向页岩基乙烷用于蒸汽裂解装置，由于丙烷和丙烯之间的价格差异，丙烷脱氢的市场条件有利，以及丁烷脱氢的市场情况有利。研究人员正在通过优化工业脱氢过程以生产聚合物级纯度的烯烃，以及寻找更经济的原料和更有效的转化技术，来应对对高温稳定性、丙烯选择性和对副反应的抵抗力催化剂的需求。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
