<quotes>

[1] "Because dehydrogenation for the production of light olefins has become extremely relevant in recent times, we aim to provide the reader with a complete overview of the materials used to catalyze this reaction."
[2] "Indeed, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[3] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[4] "Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply."
[5] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[6] "The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[7] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[8] "The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn."
[9] "A number of factors including the high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
[10] "In recent years, hydraulic fracturing or fracking technologies have improved to the point where large volumes of shale gas can be extracted in a cost-effective manner."
[11] "This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals."
[12] "Consequently, the recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East."
[13] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[14] "The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[15] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[16] "In fact, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[17] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[18] "Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply."
[19] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[20] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the high-energy demands of the processes, low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices. The opportunities include the shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations, the favorable market conditions due to the price difference between propane and propylene, and the advantage of dehydrogenation technologies being an on-purpose technique that yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products. Researchers are addressing the need for catalysts with high-temperature stability, propylene selectivity, and resistance to side reactions by optimizing industrial dehydrogenation processes to produce olefins of polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction. There is also a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢（PDH）用于工业丙烯生产的主要挑战包括过程的高能耗需求、对特定烯烃生产的选择性低、石油储备的减少和油价上涨。机遇包括从基于石油的石脑油转向基于页岩的乙烷用于蒸汽裂解装置，由于丙烷和丙烯之间的价格差异，市场条件有利，脱氢技术的优势是它是一种专门的技术，仅产生特定的烯烃，而不是混合产品。研究人员正在通过优化工业脱氢过程来生产聚合物级纯度的烯烃，以应对对高温稳定性、丙烯选择性和对副反应的抵抗力的催化剂的需求。全球已宣布数十个新的PDH装置，其中许多装置已经在建设中。丁烷脱氢也有类似有利的市场情况。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
