<quotes>

[1] "Because dehydrogenation for the production of light olefins has become extremely relevant in recent times, we aim to provide the reader with a complete overview of the materials used to catalyze this reaction."
[2] "First, we will introduce the subject by considering the industrial processes that have been patented and applied and the thermodynamics of the dehydrogenation reaction."
[3] "Next, the Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts that are currently used in commercial processes will be examined in detail."
[4] "Additionally, other metal oxides, such as GaOx, VOx, MoOx, and InOx, which have also proven to be promising dehydrogenation catalysts will be surveyed."
[5] "For each catalytic material, relevant factors, such as the specific nature of the active sites, as well as the effect of support, promoters, and reaction feed on catalyst performance and lifetime, will be discussed."
[6] "Finally, we will compare different catalysts both in terms of the reaction mechanism and deactivation pathways and in terms of catalytic performance."
[7] "The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[8] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[9] "In fact, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[10] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[11] "Notably, there is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply."
[12] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[13] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the high-energy demands of the processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices. Researchers are addressing these challenges by developing catalysts with high-temperature stability, propylene selectivity, and resistance to side reactions, while considering thermodynamic limitations. The market conditions are very favorable for PDH due to the price difference between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies have the advantage of being on-purpose techniques, yielding exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products. Industrial dehydrogenation processes are optimized to produce olefins of polymer-quality purity. Dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many are already under construction. There is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes due to increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, and a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, resulting in sharp increases in butadiene prices and sparking investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)用于工业丙烯生产的主要挑战包括过程的高能量需求、对特定烯烃生产的低选择性、石油储备的减少和油价上涨。研究人员正在开发具有高温稳定性、丙烯选择性和抵抗副反应能力的催化剂，同时考虑热力学限制，以应对这些挑战。由于丙烷和丙烯之间的价格差异，PDH的市场条件非常有利。脱氢技术的优势在于它们是有目的的技术，仅产生特定的烯烃，而不是混合产品。工业脱氢过程被优化以生产聚合物级纯度的烯烃。全球已宣布了数十个新的PDH装置，其中许多正在建设中。由于来自汽车行业的特别需求增加，以及由于石脑油裂解的高成本导致供应减少，导致丁二烯价格急剧上涨，丁烷脱氢(BDH)的情况也类似有利。这反过来又刺激了在美国、中国和日本对新的丁烷脱氢(BDH)装置的投资。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
