I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Ternary Pt/Rh/SnO2 electrocatalysts for oxidizing ethanol to CO2 Ethanol, with its high energy density, likely production from renewable sources and ease of storage and transportation, is almost the ideal combustible for fuel cells wherein its chemical energy can be converted directly into electrical energy. However, commercialization of direct ethanol fuel cells has been impeded by ethanols slow, inefficient oxidation even at the best electrocatalysts1,2. We synthesized a ternary PtRhSnO2/C electrocatalyst by depositing platinum and rhodium atoms on carbon-supported tin dioxide nanoparticles that is capable of oxidizing ethanol with high efficiency and holds great promise for resolving the impediments to developing practical direct ethanol fuel cells. This electrocatalyst effectively splits the CC bond in ethanol at room temperature in acid solutions, facilitating its oxidation at low potentials to CO2, which has not been achieved with existing catalysts. Our experiments and density functional theory calculations indicate that the electrocatalysts activity is due to the specific property of each of its constituents, induced by their interactions. These findings help explain the high activity of PtRu for methanol oxidation and the lack of it for ethanol oxidation, and point to the way to accomplishing the CC bond splitting in other catalytic processes.
Main Developing electrocatalysts for ethanol oxidation to CO2 that break the CC bond has been a major challenge in electrocatalysis. The existing electrocatalysts can accomplish that only at extreme positive potentials3,4,5,6, which renders them unsuitable for direct ethanol fuel cells7. In situ infrared reflection-absorption spectroscopy8,9 (IRRAS) and differential electrochemical mass spectrometry10 have shown that acetaldehyde and acetic acid are the main reaction products. Here, we describe PtRhSnO2, a ternary electrocatalyst capable of oxidizing ethanol to CO2. For its synthesis, we developed a cation-adsorption-reduction-galvanic-displacement synthetic method (see Supplementary Information, S1) that facilitates the controllable deposition of metal atoms on oxide surfaces11. Using this method, we placed Pt and Rh atoms on SnO2 to synthesize the ternary PtRhSnO2 electrocatalyst.
Figure 1a shows a considerably higher current of ethanol oxidation, that is, higher activity, for the ternary PtRhSnO2/C electrocatalyst than that of PtSnO2/C, highlighting the importance of the Rh component. Further tests showed that the activity of RhSnO2/C (no Pt) electrocatalysts was low. Thus, both Pt and Rh at SnO2 are necessary for an active electrocatalyst. Figure 1b shows the comparison between PtRhSnO2/C electrocatalyst and a commercial Pt/C electrocatalyst lacking Rh and SnO2 in quasi-steady-state conditions at a sweep rate of 1mVs1. At 0.3V, the current density for the ternary electrocatalyst is more than two orders of magnitude larger than that of the commercial Pt/C electrocatalyst. All potentials are given with respect to a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). The Tafel slope of 120mV can be obtained from that plot, indicating that the first charge transfer is the rate-determining step. Figure 1c shows a very high rate of ethanol oxidation of the PtRhSnO2/C electrocatalyst (current density of 7.5mAcm2) at 60C, namely, a temperature close to that at which direct ethanol fuel cells operate (6080C) at the potential of 0.3V. At this same potential, PtRu/C, the common electrocatalyst for ethanol oxidation, has a negligible current density. The chronoamperometric measurements (Fig. 1d) confirm the high activity of the PtRhSnO2/C electrocatalyst, which is 100 times higher than the corresponding activity of Pt/C.
Figure 1: Currentpotential and currenttime polarization curves comparing the activity of PtRhSnO2/C with several other catalysts for ethanol oxidation. a, Polarization curves for the oxidation of ethanol on PtRhSnO2/C and PtSnO2/C thin-film electrocatalysts deposited on a glassy carbon electrode. Electrocatalyst compositions: PtRhSnO2/C30nmol Pt, 8nmol Rh and 60nmol SnO2; PtSnO2/C30nmol Pt and 60nmol SnO2; electrode surface area is 0.2cm2; 0.1M HClO4; 0.2M ethanol; sweep rate is 50mVs1. b, Quasi-steady-state polarization curves for the oxidation of ethanol on PtRhSnO2/Cand Pt/C (20% Pt on C E-TEK) electrocatalysts on a glassy carbon electrode. Electrocatalyst compositions: PtRhSnO2/C25nmol Pt, 16nmol Rh and 25nmol SnO2; Pt/C - 25nmol Pt; electrode surface area is 0.2cm2; 0.1M HClO4; 0.5M ethanol; sweep rate is 1mVs1. c, Polarization curves for electrocatalysts for the oxidation of ethanol on PtRhSnO2/C and PtRu/C (20% PtRu with 1:1 atomic ratio on C E-TEK) at 60C. Electrocatalyst compositions: PtRhSnO2/C25nmol Pt, 5nmol Rh and 20nmol SnO2; PtRu/C: 25nmol Pt, Ru: 25nmol, other conditions as in a. d, Chronoamperometry measurements of ethanol oxidation at 0.45V on PtRhSnO2/C and Pt/C catalysts at 60C in 0.5M C2H5OH in 0.1M HClO4. The current for Pt/C is multiplied by 40.
Full size image We determined the structural and electronic properties of PtRhSnO2 electrocatalyst and their potential dependence using in situ X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) techniques, and combined them with data obtained by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and inductively coupled plasma (ICP) analysis. Figure 2a,c shows the Rh K-edge and Pt L3-edge XANES spectra for PtRhSnO2/C, respectively obtained in the potential region from 0.21 to 1.11V in 1M HClO4 solution. The main absorption peaks at the Rh and Pt edges have a very small potential dependence, indicating that the surfaces are only slightly oxidized, unlike the process that occurs with the pure Rh phase. It is likely that OH, which is present on the SnO2 surface in aqueous solutions, causes a shift in surface oxidation of Rh and Pt (Rh or PtOH formation) to positive potentials induced by the OHOH repulsion12. The adsorption and dissociation of H2O on SnO2 have been verified in a number of studies13,14. In general, on oxide surfaces, water molecules are adsorbed on metal ions with the transfer of one of the protons to a neighbouring oxygen atom. A carpet of OH groups mediates the interaction between the oxide surface and the environment. Oxide surfaces behave as non-polarizable interfaces in which the electrical state is controlled by the solutions pH and the effect of the electrode potential is negligible even for conductive oxides15.
Figure 2: In situ XANES and EXAFS spectra for determining the structural and electronic properties of PtRhSnO2. ad, XANES spectra (a,c) and Fourier-transform magnitudes (b,d) of the Rh K-edge (a,b) and Pt L3-edge (c,d) for the PtRhSnO2/C electrocatalyst in 1M HClO4 solution as a function of potential. Potential settings for a,c are indicated in the graphs.
Full size image EXAFS spectroscopy measurements with input from TEM studies provided detailed information on the intra-particle composition and degree of alloying of Pt and Rh. Figure 2b,d shows the Fourier-transform magnitudes of the EXAFS data that correspond to the above XANES spectra at 0.41V and theoretical signals that were fitted to the Rh K-edge and Pt L3-edge data concurrently, by applying physically reasonable constraints16,17. The results of fittings in the k-space of Rh and Pt edges are shown in (Fig. 2, Supplementary Information, S2). Measurements of metalmetal (RhPt and PtRh) coordination numbers NRhPt and NPtRh enabled us to obtain the average composition of the nanoparticles: x(Pt)/x(Rh)=NRhPt/NPtRh=2.10.3, in reasonably good agreement with the ICP data x(Pt)/x(Rh)=1.50.2. The absolute values of these coordination numbers indicate the same size range (13nm) as obtained by TEM (see Supplementary Information, S2). The obtained Ptmetal and Rhmetal coordination numbers NPtM=NPtPt+NPtRh and NRhM=NRhRh+NRhPt have similar values (9.50.8 and 10.80.8, respectively), consistent with homogeneous distribution of Pt and Rh throughout the particles. In addition, as the NPtPt/NPtRh and NRhPt/NRhRh ratios were found to be consistent, within the uncertainties, with the bulk ratios of Pt and Rh concentrations obtained independently by EXAFS and ICP, we conclude that the Pt and Rh formed a quasi-random alloy. Further independent evidence towards that conclusion is the similarity between the PtPt, PtRh and RhRh bond lengths found by our EXAFS analysis: 2.7430.003Å, 2.7250.004Å, and 2.7050.005Å, respectively, that is, characterized by a much smaller spread than between pure Pt (2.775Å) and Rh (2.689Å).
We used in situ IRRAS to identify the intermediates and products of ethanol oxidation. First, we synthesized the model catalyst using a Pt(111) surface as the support for Rh and SnO2. Figure 3a,b illustrates the different key features of the recorded spectra for the bare Pt(111) and RhSnO2/Pt(111) electrode surfaces. The positive potential-dependent peak near 2,342cm1 is the signature peak for the asymmetric stretch vibration of CO2 that appears above 0.78V on the Pt(111) electrode, but is already apparent above 0.30V on the RhSnO2/Pt(111) electrode. The presence of CO2 indicates the successful cleavage of the CC bond in ethanol. The Pt(111) surface is partially covered by clusters of SnO2 and Rh, respectively equivalent to amounts of 2monolayers (ML) and 0.5ML. The bipolar peak at 2,030cm1 was assigned to linearly absorbed CO (COL). The band located at around 1,715cm1 reflected the stretch vibration of the C=O bond in acetaldehyde and/or acetic acid, both of which are partial oxidation products. Considerably weaker bands occurred for acetaldehyde at 1,715cm1 and acetic acid at 1,277cm1 for the ternary catalyst, confirming the significant decrease of their yield. The spectra for carbon-supported PtRhSnO2 are shown in Fig. 3c. A high activity of this electrocatalyst is reflected in strong CO2 bands and negligible CO bands.
Figure 3: In situ IRRAS spectra for identifying the intermediates and products of ethanol oxidation on several electrocatalysts. ac, In situ IRRAS spectra recorded during ethanol electrooxidation on the Pt(111) electrode (a), on RhSnO2/Pt(111) consisting of clusters equivalent to 2ML of SnO2 and 0.5ML Rh on a Pt(111) electrode surface (b) and PtRhSnO2/C in a 0.2M ethanol in 0.1M HClO4 solution (c). 128 interferograms (resolution 8cm1) were collected and added into each spectrum.
Full size image On platinum, the first step on adsorption of ethanol involves δ-CH dissociation18, leading to the formation of adsorbed acetaldehyde: Our surface-enhanced infrared measurements for Pt (ref. 19) show that the partial oxidation of ethanol generates CH3CHO and CH3COOH species. For the PtRhSnO2 electrocatalyst, the generation of acetic acid is negligible (1,277cm1), the yield of acetaldehyde is significantly decreased (1,715cm1), and the negative-moving band for CO increases with rising potential (2,030cm1). These data indicate that on this electrocatalyst, the CC bond in ethanol is broken directly without going through the acetaldehyde step. The reaction predominantly involves ethanol oxidation to CO2: This conclusion is supported by the plots of the band intensities as a function of potential (see Supplementary Information, S4).
We carried out a density functional theory (DFT) investigation (see the Methods section) of ethanol decomposition over a model RhPt/SnO2(110) electrocatalyst to obtain further information on this reaction, in particular on splitting the CC bond and the roles of Rh, Pt and SnO2. Rh, at a coverage of 1/4ML on SnO2(110), generates a metal chain bridging Sn at a coordinatively unsaturated site (Sncus) and oxygen at bridge sites20. The binding energy corresponds, respectively, to 2.82eV/Pt atom and 2.95eV/Rh atom. The co-deposition of Rh and Pt forms an alloy chain along a Sncus row (Fig. 4a) with the binding energy of 3.22eV/metal atom. Figure 4a shows water strongly adsorbs on SnO2 sites undergoing the spontaneous breakage of one of the OH bonds. In contrast, the Pt or/and Rh sites are much less active and the water molecule stays intact. Therefore, we assume that SnO2 sites are saturated by H2O/OH under the electrochemical condition, thereby weakening the interaction of water with Pt or Rh, which is significant for nanoparticles containing low-coordination sites, making them available for ethanol oxidation (Fig. 4b).
Figure 4: DFT investigations of ethanol oxidation on a RhPt/SnO2(110) surface. a, Optimized geometry of CH2CH2O adsorption on a RhPt/SnO2(110) surface. (Sn: large grey; Pt: large yellow; Rh: large green; C: small grey; O: small red; H: small white.) b, DFT-calculated adsorption energies of water on the surfaces of SnO2(110),Rh/SnO2(110), Pt/SnO2(110) and RhPt/ SnO2(110) with and without water saturating the SnO2 sites. c, Calculated possible pathways for the CC bond breaking of ethanol on the RhPt/SnO2(110) surface. The reaction energies and parenthesized barriers in the figure are expressed in electronvolts. d, Calculated PDOS of the d-state of Pt or Rh on the Rh/SnO2(110), Pt/SnO2(110) and RhPt/SnO2(110) surfaces. The solid lines correspond to a bare surface, and the dashed lines represent the case after interacting with CH2CH2O.
Full size image Furthermore, we considered the possible reaction pathways from gaseous ethanol to CC bond splitting. Figure 4c includes the calculated energetics for ethanol decomposition on the RhPt/SnO2(110) surface with dissociated water saturating the oxide sites. Among all of the possibilities, the following is the optimal pathway to CC bond breaking: Here, all adsorbates prefer the pure Rh sites except atomic hydrogen, which favours the RhPt hybrid hollow sites. Thus, ethanol decomposition on RhPt/SnO2(110) occurs through an oxametallacyclic conformation (CH2CH2O, Fig. 4a) that entails direct CC bond cleavage with a reasonable barrier of 1.29eV. In contrast, the formation of acetaldehyde (CH3CHO) is not favoured, having the barrier higher by 0.66eV, and the barrier for CC bond breaking in CH3CHO is very high, requiring 3.82eV (Fig. 4c). This agrees with the effect of Rh addition at the metalgas interface, showing the preference for the CH2CH2O conformation21,22,23. In addition, our calculations show that the barrier to CH2CH2O generation decreases in the following sequence: Pt/SnO2 (1.53eV)>Rh/SnO2 (0.98eV)>PtRh/SnO2 (0.94eV). Thus, the presence of Rh is essential for the formation of CH2CH2O. In accordance with Fig. 3, the splitting of the CC bond does not occur through the pathway involving acetaldehyde. Its negligible coverage, and the evidence of CO involvement in the reaction, means that this catalyst facilitates a direct splitting of the CC bond, substantiated by our DFT calculations. Spectra in Fig. 3, however, do not show evidence for oxametallacycles. The bands that are accessible under our conditions are weak (ν(CH), w(CH2)), whereas CH2O has the CO bond parallel to the Pt surface, which is not infrared active24 and cannot be seen.
We also calculated the partial density of states (PDOS) of the d-state of the supported Pt and Rh atoms on SnO2(110) before and after interacting with CH2CH2O to gain further information on bond formation. As Fig. 4d illustrates, the metalCH2CH2O reaction is dominated by backdonation from the π orbitals of CH2CH2O to the d-orbital of the metal atoms. Accordingly, Rh obviously is a better choice to stabilize the metalCH2CH2O complex than is Pt, which has a high-lying d-band and more unoccupied d-states. In addition, the mixture of Rh and Pt facilitates the occurrence of more empty states of Rh than does Rh alone on SnO2. The strong interaction between Pt and Rh is accompanied by an electron transfer from Rh to Pt, and more d-states of Rh become available above the Fermi level. Concurrently, the d-states of Pt shift away from the Fermi level, causing a lower activity of Pt in PtRh/SnO2 than Rh, or even Pt in Pt/SnO2. Our calculations show that Pt in PtRh/SnO2 weakly interacts with ethanol, and the other dissociated oxygenates and hydrocarbons. It is active only for dissociated H. Thus, the results also imply that slightly increasing the amount of Pt will empty more d-states of Rh, thereby improving the activity for ethanol oxidation, as inferred from our experimental data.
In summary, we successfully synthesized the ternary PtRhSnO2/C electrocatalyst, effective in splitting the CC bond of ethanol at room temperature, and causing its predominant oxidation to CO2. The CO2 generation was verified using in situ IRRAS. Our analyses reveal that its catalytic activity rests on the synergy between the three constituents of the electrocatalyst. Further support for synergy is afforded by similar activity of the Pt(111)/RhSnO2 and Rh(111)/PtSnO2 surfaces (see Supplementary Information, S2). Thus, SnO2 by strongly adsorbing water and interacting with the Pt and Rh deposited on its surface, apparently precludes the Rh and Pt sites from reacting with H2O to form MOH (see the text and the XANES spectra in Fig. 2a,c), making them available for ethanol oxidation. SnO2 with H2O provides OH species to oxidize the dissociated CO at Rh sites, and Pt facilitates ethanol dehydrogenation. It also modifies the electronic structure of Rh to afford moderate bonding to ethanol, intermediates and products, which facilitates CC bond breaking and, therefore, ethanol oxidation. The DFT calculations demonstrated that the oxidation of ethanol on PtRh/SnO2 proceeds through oxametallacyclic conformation that facilitates the direct cleavage of the CC bond at a reasonable rate. The high activity of PtRu for methanol oxidation and the lack of it for ethanol oxidation seems to be due to a high propensity of Ru to form RuOH in interaction with H2O at potentials E>0.0V (ref. 25). This reaction cannot be suppressed in the OHOH repulsion with SnOH, as it happens with weakly bonded RhOH. RuOH does not adsorb ethanol and cannot split the CC bond. However, in PtRu, it efficiently oxidizes CO in methanol oxidation. The last reaction cannot be accomplished by the metallic-like Rh in PtRh/SnO2. Thus, replacing expensive Rh should be sought in designing bimetallic and near-surface alloys that can provide adsorption and surface oxidation properties close to those of Rh.
Methods Catalyst synthesis.
The carbon-supported nanoparticle PtRhSnO2 electrocatalyst was synthesized using a controllable deposition of metal atoms on oxide surfaces, termed the cation-adsorption -reduction-galvanic-displacement method (Patent application 2007) (further details in Supplementary Information, S1). SnO2 nanoparticles were prepared by heating ethylene glycol solution containing SnCl2 (ref. 26) and then were deposited on carbon Vulcan XC-72. Pb2+ cations were adsorbed on SnO2 in solutions with pH11. The oxide with adsorbed Pb2+ was emersed from solution and Pb2+ was reduced electrochemically in Pb2+-free solution. Pb0 was then displaced by Pt on immersion in a Pt2+ solution. Rh was placed on Pt by the galvanic displacement of an underpotentially deposited Cu layer on Pt sites.
RhSnO2/Pt(111) electrode surfaces used in the IRRAS study were prepared by placing Rh and SnO2 nanoclusters on a Pt(111) single-crystal surface. Rh clusters, an amount equivalent to 1/2ML, were obtained by displacing an underpotentially deposited Cu layer on Pt(111). SnO2 clusters, an amount equivalent to 2ML, were formed by thermal decomposition of a SnCl4 drop on a Rh/Pt(111) surface at 200C.
IRRAS.
In situ IRRAS studies were carried out with a Nicolet Nexus 670 Fourier-transform infrared spectrometer equipped with a mercury cadmium telluride detector cooled with liquid nitrogen. An unpolarized light beam was used. The spectral resolution was set to 8cm1 and 128 interferograms were together added to each spectrum. Spectra are given in absorbance units defined as A=log(R/R0), where R and R0 represent the reflected infrared intensities corresponding to the sample and reference single-beam spectrum, respectively. The reference spectrum was collected at 0.2V in the same solution with 0.5M ethanol and 0.1M HClO4. Electrodes used for the infrared study included bare Pt(111), RhSnO2/Pt(111) and PtRhSnO2/C nanoparticle electrocatalyst. In the last case, nanoparticles were placed on Au(111) or on Pt(111) surfaces to ensure a good current collection and reflectivity. A very dilute Nafion solution was used to immobilize the nanoparticles. A ZnSe hemisphere was used as the infrared window.
X-ray absorption spectroscopy.
In situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements were conducted at K-edges for Rh and Sn, and the L3-edge for Pt at beamline X18 B at the National Synchrotron Light Source, Brookhaven National Laboratory. The beam was detuned by 20% at the Pt L3-edge to reject higher harmonics; no detuning is necessary for Rh and Sn K-edges. The XAS data were collected up to about 1,530eV past the absorption edge, corresponding to the wavenumbers of 20Å1. Three detectors, for the incident, transmitted and reference beam intensity measurements were used; the last detector serving as a reference for absolute energy calibration and alignment. The XAS data were collected with the storage ring operating at 2.8 GeV and an electron current between 110 and 350 mA.
Carbon-supported Rh/Pt/SnO2 nanoparticles were pressed and sealed in a Plexiglas cell using Kapton tape. In situ XAS studies were carried out using a spectro-electrochemical cell, designed for spectroscopic measurements in both fluorescence and transmission mode. We used transmission data for all edges. Details of the cell are given elsewhere (see, for instance, the Synchrotron Catalysis Consortium web page: <http://www.yu.edu/scc/ >). XAS spectra were collected at specific potentials between hydrogen and oxygen evolution regions in steps of 0.1V and steady-state potential mode, allowing 2min for current stabilization. The XAS data were processed and fitted using Athena and Arthemis analysis packages. The Pt and Rh edge data were fitted simultaneously by setting the bond distance of RPtRh=RRhPt, and constraining the parameters of S02 to the values determined from fitting the reference metal foils (Pt and Rh). Only the data range 1.23.2Å was fitted with the first-shell single scattering paths.
DFT calculation.
The unrestricted DFT calculations were carried out using the DMol3 code by Delley27. The ionic cores were described by effective core potentials, with a numerical basis set and the generalized gradient approximation revised version of the PerdewBurkeErnzerhof functional to describe the exchange and correlation. SnO2(110) was modelled by means of the supercell approach with three OSnO layer slabs and an 11Å vacuum between the slabs. The top OSnO layer of SnO2 substrate, the Rh and Pt atoms on the surface and the adsorbates were allowed to fully relax. Transition states were identified using the combination of synchronous transit methods and an eigenvector following ref. 27.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based ones, influence the mechanisms and efficiencies of CO oxidation, water gas shift reaction, and methane conversions in reactor studies, and what potential insights could future UHV studies provide in correlating these findings with model surfaces and supported catalysts, considering the current limitations in UHV studies on Pt-based bimetallic surfaces?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 