Unusual localization of zinc cations in MFI zeolites modiﬁed by
diﬀerent ways of preparation
V. B. Kazansky* and A. I. Serykh
Zelinsky Institute of Organic Chemistry of Russian Academy of Sciences, Leninsky prospect 47,
119991 Moscow, Russia. E-mail: vbk@ioc.ac.ru; Fax: (7 095) 1355328; Tel: (7 095) 1357400
Received 6th February 2004, Accepted13th April 2004
F|rst published as an AdvanceArticle on the web14th May 2004
Comparison of DRIFT spectra of OH groups in MFI with framework Si/Al ratios equal to 25 or 40 with the
spectra of the same zeolites after reaction with zinc vapour at 773 K indicated quantitative substitution of
acidic hydroxyls by Zn2þ ions. Complete substitution of protons indicates that at high Si/Al ratios some
of the Zn2þ cations are localized at the isolated aluminium occupied oxygen tetrahedra with single negative
charges. This results in the formation of sites with only partially compensated excessive positive charges
of bivalent cations. In parallel, the same amount of negatively charged aluminium occupied oxygen tetrahedra
remains without compensating cations or protons. Their negative charges are neutralized indirectly by the
electrostatic interaction with the surrounding positively charged cationic sites. Zinc or other bivalent ions with
only partially compensated positive charges exhibit an unusually high chemical activity. This explains the
speciﬁc catalytic and adsorption properties of high-silica zeolites modiﬁed with the bivalent transition metal
cations. In the present study, this was demonstrated by very large red shifts of H–H stretching vibrations
of H2 adsorbed by zinc cations at 77 K and by heterolytic dissociative adsorption of molecular hydrogen at
moderately elevated temperatures. Application of low temperature H2 adsorption as a molecular probe
indicated that similar sites of unusual localization of bivalent zinc cations also exist in zeolites modiﬁed
by ion exchange or incipient wetness impregnation, but the amount of such sites is less than for the
samples modiﬁed by reaction with zinc vapour.
Introduction
The catalytic properties of high-silica zeolites modiﬁed with
bivalent cations are quite diﬀerent from those of faujasites
containing the same cations. For instance, cobalt- and
copper-modiﬁed MFI are active in selective reduction of NOx
by hydrocarbons in oxygen excess.1,2 CoMFI catalyzes the
ammo-oxidation of ethane,1 whereas ZnMFI catalyzes dehy-
drogenation and aromatization of light paraﬃns, etc.3,4 On
the contrary, faujasites or other low-silica zeolites modiﬁed
with the same cations catalyze neither of these reactions.
Our recent results also demonstrated that MFI modiﬁed
with bivalent Zn or Co cations possess unusual adsorption
properties. For instance, low-frequency shifts of H–H stretch-
ing vibrations of molecular hydrogen adsorbed by these ions
at 77 K exceed 200 cm1.5–7,9 This is almost twice that for
hydrogen adsorbed by ZnFAU.8 There is no doubt that such
unusual catalytic and adsorption properties are due to the
speciﬁc localization of bivalent cations in silica-rich structures.
Until recently, it has been generally believed that bivalent
cations in high-silica zeolites are localized at sites containing
two negatively charged aluminium occupied oxygen tetrahedra
in the next-nearest positions to each other. Several attempts
have been made to predict the fraction of such sites. Feng
and Hall10 and Rice et al.11 performed stochastic simulations
of Al distribution in high-silica frameworks. In agreement with
29Si MAS NMR results on the random distribution of alumi-
nium in MFI,12 they concluded that, at high Si/Al ratios,
the probability of ﬁnding two Al ions in the same ring of the
zeolite framework is very low. This conclusion is consistent
with the more diﬃcult ion exchange in MFI of sodium by mul-
tivalent cations compared with faujusites. Usually the extent of
exchange is at most 60%. This should be explained by the low
fraction of aluminium at the sites in the next-nearest positions,
while only sodium at such sites is preferentially involved in ion
exchange with bivalent cations.
In this connection, an interesting alternative to ion exchange
or incipient wetness impregnation is modiﬁcation of high-silica
zeolites via a reaction of the hydrogen forms with zinc vapour
at high temperatures.13,14 However, localization and properties
of Zn2þ ions in such samples have never yet been studied. In
the present work we make use of low-temperature hydrogen
adsorption as a molecular probe for the study of MFI with
two diﬀerent framework Si/Al ratios equal to 25 or 40. The
results obtained on localization of zinc cations are compared
with those for the same HZSM-5 modiﬁed by conventional
ion exchange or incipient wetness impregnation. As in our
previous studies,5–9 perturbation of adsorbed hydrogen by
zinc cations was monitored by low-frequency shifts of H–H
stretching vibrations detected by DRIFTS.
Experimental
Initial hydrogen forms of MFI were prepared by decomposi-
tion of ammonium forms in an oxygen ﬂow at 773 K. The cor-
responding MFI SM-55 sample with framework Si/Al ratio
equal to 25 was obtained from Alsi–Penta, while the one with
Si/Al ¼ 41 was received from Shell. Modiﬁcation of the zeo-
lite with Si/Al ¼ 25 was carried out in three diﬀerent ways.
The ﬁrst procedure of preparation was wet ion exchange of
the ammonium form with 0.02 M aqueous solution of zinc
nitrate. After triple exchange (8 h each) the material was
washed and dried at 390 K.
The second method of preparation was incipient wetness
impregnation of the hydrogen form with an aqueous solution
of zinc nitrate also followed by drying at 390 K and calcination
in an air ﬂow at 773 K. The resulting zinc content in this case
PCCP
www.rsc.org/pccp
R E S E A R C H P A P E R
3760
P h y s . C h e m . C h e m . P h y s . , 2 0 0 4 , 6 , 3 7 6 0 – 3 7 6 4
T h i s j o u r n a l i s Q T h e O w n e r S o c i e t i e s 2 0 0 4
DOI: 10.1039/b401853b
Published on 14 May 2004. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 31/10/2014 06:13:25. 
View Article Online / Journal Homepage / Table of Contents for this issue
was equal to ca. 2 wt%. Before DRIFT measurements, these
two samples were pre-evacuated at 773 K in a quartz optical
cell equipped with a side ﬁnger with a CaF2 window.
The third sample was prepared by chemical reaction of the
hydrogen form with zinc vapour. In this case the high-tem-
perature vacuum prereatment of the starting hydrogen form
was also performed in the quartz part of the vacuum cell for
optical measurements. The sample was initially heated to 390
K in a vacuum at a heating rate of 2 K min1 and then was
kept at this temperature for 2 h. Then, the temperature
was raised to 773 K at a rate of 2 K min1 and the sample
was evacuated for 2 h more. After that, the zeolite was trans-
ferred to the second quartz appendix of the optical cell with the
granules of metallic zinc and heated in zinc vapour for 2 h at
773 K. The released molecular hydrogen was collected in a
trap with NaX zeolite that was cooled with liquid nitrogen.
The amount of hydrogen was measured volumetrically. To
remove excess metallic zinc the modiﬁed zeolite was evacuated
at the end of the hydrogen evolution for 3 h at 773 K. The zinc
content in this sample was equal to 1.9–2 wt% as detected by
absorption spectral analysis (AAS analysis) or calculated from
the amount of hydrogen released. A similar preparation proce-
dure via reaction with zinc vapour was also used to modify
MFI with Si/Al ¼ 40 and FAU. The hydrogen form of
FAU with Si/Al ¼ 2.4 was obtained from Akzo–Nobel.
Similar to our previous publications,5–9 DRIFT spectra of
the granulated zeolites with dimensions of the grains equal
to 0.5–1 mm were measured in a quartz optical cell at room
temperature using a Nicolet Impact 410 spectrophotometer
equipped with a home-built diﬀuse reﬂectance attachment.
For DRIFT measurements at 77 K the optical cell with the
sample was immersed into a Dewar ﬂask ﬁlled with liquid
nitrogen. Molecular hydrogen was adsorbed at an equilibrium
pressure of 1.33  104 Pa, while DRIFTS measurements were
performed in the presence of hydrogen over the samples.
All DRIFT spectra were transformed into Kubelka–Munk
units by a standard program assuming that the reﬂectance abil-
ity of the samples at 5000 cm1 was equal to 0.9. Then the
background spectra of zeolites were subtracted from the over-
all spectra. The DRIFT spectra of hydroxyl groups and those
of zinc hydrides were measured at room temperature through
the CaF2 window.
Results
Results obtained from the present study are quite surprising.
They indicated that, unlike ion exchange or incipient wetness
impregnation, the reaction of hydrogen forms of MFI with
zinc vapour at 773 K results in the practically complete substi-
tution of protons by zinc ions. For the zeolite with the frame-
work Si/Al ratio equal to 25 this is demonstrated by the
spectrum (b) in Fig. 1. DRIFT spectrum (a) in Fig. 1 corre-
spond to protons in the initial hydrogen form pre-evacuated
at 773 K. In agreement with our previous results,6,7 it contains
a narrow DRIFT band at 3610 cm1 from the isolated brid-
ging acidic hydroxyl groups and a much weaker band from
the silanol groups with the maximum at 3740 cm1. A much
broader band with the maximum at 2900–3600 cm1 also
belongs to acidic OH groups that are hydrogen-bonded by
the basic oxygen atoms of the zeolite framework.
Interaction with zinc vapour at 773 K results in the disap-
pearance of the narrow and broad bands (line (b)). This
indicates a chemical reaction of both isolated and hydrogen-
bonded acidic protons with zinc atoms. The quantitative sub-
stitution of acidic protons by zinc ions was also conﬁrmed by
AAS analysis of zinc content in the modiﬁed zeolite (ca. 2 wt%
of zinc) and by the amount of releasing hydrogen that was
close to one half of the aluminium content in the sample. In
contrast to acidic protons, the reaction with zinc vapour did
not change the intensity of DRIFT band from the silanol
groups.
Our results also conﬁrmed that the extent of substitution of
protons by zinc ions in the samples prepared by incipient wet-
ness impregnation or by wet ion exchange is considerably
lower than for the reaction with zinc vapour (Fig. 1(c) and
(d)). In this connection, it should be emphasised, that unlike
ion exchange the interaction of protons with zinc vapour is a
real chemical reaction that is similar to dilution of metallic zinc
in liquid acids. This explains why the reaction with zinc vapour
results in the complete substitution of all acidic protons by zinc
ions. On the contrary, it looks like ion exchange is easy only
for the protons in the next-nearest positions but is more diﬃ-
cult for well separated protons. Incipient wetness impregnation
most likely represents an intermediate case when acidic pro-
tons are replaced both by ion exchange and by chemical reac-
tion with zinc oxide particles resulting from the decomposition
of zinc nitrate at elevated temperatures. This may explain a
higher extent of substitution of protons by zinc in the sample
prepared by incipient wetness impregnation compared with
ion exchange.
Similar to our previous studies,5–9 the modiﬁed MFI sam-
ples were examined by low-temperature hydrogen adsorption
as a molecular probe. The DRIFT spectrum of H2 adsorbed
at 77 K by the same HMFI sample as in Fig. 1(a) is shown
in Fig. 2(a). In agreement with the DRIFT spectrum of OH
groups, it also contains the band at 4105 cm1 from H–H
stretching vibrations of hydrogen perturbed by acidic hydro-
xyls with a shoulder at 4125 cm1 from hydrogen perturbed
by silanol groups.15 A much weaker band with a maximum
at 4180 cm1 belongs to the high-frequency satellite of
adsorbed hydrogen, whereas the broad band at 4030 cm1
belongs to hydrogen adsorption by Lewis sites resulting from
partial dehydroxylation of the initial hydrogen form upon
high-temperature vacuum pretreatment.
In agreement with the DRIFT spectrum of hydroxyl groups
shown in Fig. 1, the spectrum of molecular hydrogen adsorbed
by the zeolite modiﬁed via reaction with zinc vapour (Fig. 2(b))
also conﬁrms the complete substitution of acidic protons by
zinc ions. This follows from the disappearance of the band
with the maximum at 4105 cm1 from hydrogen perturbed
by acidic hydroxyl groups. On the contrary, similar to Fig.
1, the intensity of the band at 4125 cm1 from hydrogen
adsorbed by the silanol groups remains unchanged. Thus,
the hydrogen molecular probe conﬁrmed that zinc vapour
reacts only with acidic protons.
Fig. 1
(a) DRIFT spectra of hydroxyl groups in HMFI with Si/
Al ¼ 25 evacuated for 2 h at 773 K; (b) the same zeolite modiﬁed with
zinc by interaction with zinc vapour at 773 K; (c) modiﬁed by impreg-
nation of the hydrogen form with zinc nitrate solution; (d) modiﬁed by
ion exchange.
T h i s j o u r n a l i s Q T h e O w n e r S o c i e t i e s 2 0 0 4
P h y s . C h e m . C h e m . P h y s . , 2 0 0 4 , 6 , 3 7 6 0 – 3 7 6 4
3761
Published on 14 May 2004. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 31/10/2014 06:13:25. 
View Article Online
Besides the removal of acidic protons, the chemical reaction
with zinc vapour also results in the appearance of two new sites
of molecular hydrogen adsorption with H–H stretching fre-
quencies of 4010 and 3938 cm1. The position of the ﬁrst of
these bands at 4010 cm1 is close to that at 4037 cm1 for
molecular hydrogen adsorption by zinc ions at SII sites in
ZnFAU prepared by conventional wet ion exchange.8 There-
fore, similar to ref. 9 we also ascribe the band with the lower
low-frequency shift of H–H stretching vibrations to hydrogen
interacting with zinc ions localized in the six- or ﬁve-membered
rings of the MFI framework, each containing two aluminium
occupied oxygen tetrahedra per ring. In agreement with the
above-mentioned theoretical calculations,10–11 the number of
such sites in the zeolite with an Si/Al ratio of 25 is only a
minor fraction of the total aluminium content. It has also been
suggested that the more intense and more strongly red- shifted
band at 3938 cm1 belongs to hydrogen adsorbed by zinc ions
localized at well separated negatively charged aluminium
occupied oxygen tetrahedra.6,9
Similar H–H stretching bands very strongly shifted toward
low frequencies were previously observed by us for hydrogen
adsorption by Zn- and Co-modiﬁed samples prepared by inci-
pient wetness impregnation in refs. 5–7. It was also concluded
in those papers that the fraction of ion pairs with the distantly
separated zinc cations and basic sites with cationic vacancies
was increasing for zeolites with higher Si/Al ratios. Therefore,
in the present study we also investigated hydrogen adsorption
by MFI with the higher framework Si/Al ratio equal to 40 that
was also modiﬁed by the high-temperature reaction with zinc
vapour.
The corresponding DRIFT spectra are shown in Fig. 3. As
expected, in this case the relative intensity of the band from
the most strongly perturbed adsorbed hydrogen is higher. This
indicates an increasing fraction of the above-mentioned
unusual Zn2þ ions. It should also be emphasized that the
frequency of this band is slightly lower than for the sample
with Si/Al ¼ 25. This is probably associated with the stronger
separation of aluminium atoms in the zeolite framework with
the higher Si/Al ratio.
Similar to our previous observations,9 at temperatures only
slightly above room temperature, the most strongly perturbed
hydrogen molecules are involved in heterolytic dissociative
adsorption resulting in the appearance of a DRIFT band from
Zn hydrides with the maximum at 1934 cm1 (Fig. 4) and in
the partial regeneration of the narrow and broad bands from
acidic hydroxyl groups (Fig. 5). The intensities of all these
bands are increasing with an increase in the temperature of
hydrogen adsorption.
Fig. 6 shows the DRIFT spectra of molecular hydrogen
adsorbed at 77 K by the same sample preheated before
DRIFTS measurements in a hydrogen atmosphere at the same
temperatures as in Figs. 4 and 5. Upon heating in hydrogen,
the intensity of the band with the maximum at 3938 cm1
decreases, while the band at 4010 cm1 remains unchanged.
This indicates that the dissociative hydrogen adsorption only
takes place on sites with stronger perturbation of adsorbed
H2 molecules. On the contrary, dissociation on sites with
weaker hydrogen perturbation did not take place.
DRIFT spectra of molecular hydrogen adsorbed at 77 K on
the samples prepared by incipient wetness impregnation or by
wet ion exchange are shown in Figs. 7(a) and (b). Their com-
parison with Fig. 2 indicates that the fraction of the sites with
the stronger perturbation of adsorbed hydrogen for both these
preparation procedures is lower than for the reaction with zinc
vapour. Moreover, for the incipient wetness impregnation, the
fraction of such sites is also somewhat higher than for ion
exchange. Both these conclusions are in agreement with more
complete substitution of protons by chemical reaction with
zinc vapour that was indicated by DRIFT spectra of hydroxyl
groups in Figs. 1 and 2.
Fig. 3
Comparison of DRIFT spectra of H2 adsorbed at 77 K at a
pressure of 1.33  104 Pa by HMFI (Si/Al ¼ 40) (solid line) and by
the same zeolite modiﬁed by high-temperature reaction with zinc
vapour.
Fig. 4
DRIFT spectra of hydrides resulting from dissociative adsorp-
tion of molecular hydrogen by ZnMFI (Si/Al ¼ 25) prepared by
high-temperature interaction of HMFI with zinc vapour: (a) before
hydrogen adsorption; (b) after hydrogen adsorption at room tempera-
ture; (c) after heating the sample in hydrogen at 373 K; (d) after
heating the sample in hydrogen at 473 K. DRIFTS measurements were
carried out at room temperature at an equilibrium pressure of
hydrogen of 1.33  104 Pa).
Fig. 2
DRIFT spectra of H2 adsorbed at 77 K at a pressure of 1.33 
104 Pa by: (a) hydrogen form of MFI (Si/Al ¼ 25) pre-evacuated at
773 K; (b) zinc modiﬁed MFI prepared by interaction of the same
hydrogen form with zinc vapour at 773 K.
3762
P h y s . C h e m . C h e m . P h y s . , 2 0 0 4 , 6 , 3 7 6 0 – 3 7 6 4
T h i s j o u r n a l i s Q T h e O w n e r S o c i e t i e s 2 0 0 4
Published on 14 May 2004. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 31/10/2014 06:13:25. 
View Article Online
Since ZnMFI is known as a catalyst for paraﬃn dehydro-
genation, we also tested the state of zinc ions by methane
adsorption at room temperature. Comparison of the obtained
DRIFT spectra for methane adsorption by ZnFAU and by
ZnMFI with Si/Al ¼ 25 both prepared by interaction of
hydrogen forms with zinc vapour is shown in Fig. 8(a) and
(b). DRIFT bands with maxima at 3016 and 3001 cm1 belong
to
asymmetric
C–H
vibrations
of
gaseous
and
weakly
adsorbed methane, respectively. Much stronger low frequency
shifted broad bands at 2861 and 2806 cm1 are due to stronger
methane adsorption by the modifying zinc cations in ZnFAU
and ZnMFI, respectively. Similar to hydrogen adsorption, the
red shift of the low-frequency band for methane adsorbed by
ZnMFI is much greater than for adsorption by ZnFAU. This
also indicates similar stronger perturbation of adsorbed
methane by well separated Zn2þ ions in the MFI framework.
Discussion
It has been suggested in our previous work that bivalent zinc
ions most strongly perturbing adsorbed hydrogen molecules
are well separated from each other.9 The main argument sup-
porting this conclusion was the higher fraction of such sites in
zeolites with higher Si/Al ratios. The results of the present
study provide even better support of this model. Indeed, the
complete substitution of protons in MFI by chemical reaction
with zinc vapour should be considered as a strong argument
against the localization of Zn2þ ions only at paired aluminium
sites at the next-nearest positions, since in the zeolite with Si/
Al ¼ 25 the number of such sites is certainly much less than
the total aluminium content. Therefore, in addition to the sta-
bilization of bivalent cations at two oxygen–aluminium tetra-
hedra in the next-nearest positions, some of the zinc ions are
also localized at sites with larger distances between negative
lattice charges. As discussed in ref. 9, such localization most
likely corresponds to the following structure with alternating
positive and negative electric charges:
2½AlO2Hþ þ Zn0 ! ½AlO2Zn2þ þ ½AlO2 þ H2
ð1Þ
In this case bivalent zinc cations are stabilized at isolated oxy-
gen tetrahedra occupied by aluminium with single negative
charges creating the sites with only partially compensated
positive charges. Due to the requirement of electroneutrality,
bivalent cations can occupy only up to one half of distantly
separated negative sites. The equivalent amount of alumi-
nium–oxygen tetrahedra remains cationically vacant. Their
negative electric charges are compensated in an indirect way
Fig. 5
DRIFT spectra of hydroxyl groups resulting from dissociative
adsorption of molecular hydrogen at a pressure of 1.33  104 Pa by the
same zinc modiﬁed MFI as in Fig. 4: (a) before hydrogen adsorption;
(b) after hydrogen adsorption at room temperature; (c) after heating of
the sample in hydrogen at 373 K; (d) after heating of the sample in
hydrogen at 473 K.
Fig. 6
DRIFT spectra of H2 adsorbed at 77 K at a pressure of 1.33 
104 Pa by the same ZnMFI sample as in Figs. 4 and 5 prepared by
reaction of the hydrogen form with zinc vapour. DRIFTS measure-
ments were performed after preliminary adsorption of hydrogen at
the same temperatures as in Figs. 4 and 5.
Fig. 7
DRIFT spectra of H2 adsorbed at 77 K at a pressure of 1.33 
104 Pa by zinc modiﬁed MFI zeolites of diﬀerent preparation at 77 K:
(a) modiﬁcation by incipient wetness impregnation; (b) modiﬁcation by
ion exchange.
Fig. 8
DRIFT spectra of methane adsorbed at room temperature at
a pressure of 2.7  103 Pa by: (a) ZnFAU; (b) ZnMFI. Both samples
prepared by interaction of the hydrogen forms of zeolites with zinc
vapour.
T h i s j o u r n a l i s Q T h e O w n e r S o c i e t i e s 2 0 0 4
P h y s . C h e m . C h e m . P h y s . , 2 0 0 4 , 6 , 3 7 6 0 – 3 7 6 4
3763
Published on 14 May 2004. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 31/10/2014 06:13:25. 
View Article Online
by electrostatic interaction with the surrounding excessively
positively charged cations. In addition, due to the random dis-
tribution of aluminium in the MFI framework, some of the
zinc cations are also localized at the conventional ion-exchange
sites with two aluminium atoms in the next-nearest positions.
The fraction of such sites should decrease at the higher Si/Al
ratios.
In this connection, it should be emphasized that the com-
plete substitution in MFI of protons by zinc cations could be
by no means explained by the formation of the bridging
[Zn–O–Zn]þ oxo-ions or of dimeric [Zn–Zn]2þ ions similar
to those that have been suggested for the MFI zeolites
modiﬁed by Cu2þ 16 or Cd2þ ions:17 (eqns. (2) or (3)):
2½AlO2Hþ þ Zn O ! ½AlO2½Zn O Zn2þ½AlO2 þ H2O
ð2Þ
or
2½AlO2Hþ þ ½Zn Zn2þ ! AlO2½Zn Zn2þ½AlO2 þ H2
ð3Þ
For the zinc-modiﬁed zeolites, the formation of such species is
inconsistent with a zinc content of 2 wt% at the complete sub-
stitution of protons by zinc that was experimentally detected in
the present study by AAS or by the amount of hydrogen
released. Indeed, as follows from eqns. (2) and (3), for the
dimeric species the zinc content should be twice that for
our charge alternating model (1) i.e. should correspond to
Zn/Al ¼ 1 or to a zinc content of 4 wt%.
Thus, our charge-alternating model provides a new concept
for the localization of charge-compensating multivalent ions in
high-silica zeolites. This possibility has never been discussed
before, although similar structures with alternating excessive
positive and negative charges in monometallic and mixed oxi-
des with diﬀerent charges of cations and lattice oxygen have
been known for a long time. Well-known examples of such
structures are aluminium oxide, layered alumina silicates,
spinels, etc.
The unusually large red shifts of H–H stretching vibrations
created by such acid–base pairs with well separated zinc Lewis
sites and negatively charged basic oxygen should be explained
by very strong perturbation of adsorbed hydrogen by the zinc
cations with only partially compensated positive electric
charges. Moreover, at room temperature or slightly higher
such sites dissociatively adsorb molecular hydrogen according
to the following equation:
½AlO2Zn2þ þ ½AlO2 þ H2
! ½AlO2Zn2þH þ ½AlO2Hþ
ð4Þ
As shown in Fig. 5, this results in the partial regeneration of
the DRIFT band from acidic hydroxyl groups with the maxi-
mum at 3610 cm1 and in the appearance of the band from
zinc hydrides at 1934 cm1 (Fig. 4). Comparison of Figs. 5
and 6 clearly indicates that the dissociative adsorption of
hydrogen does not take place on the sites with weaker hydro-
gen perturbation but only occurs on zinc ions most strongly
perturbing molecular hydrogen. Therefore, the amount of
acidic protons regenerated by dissociative adsorption can be
used for estimating the number of such unusual zinc ions.
Indeed, for the sample with 100% of such sites, the amount
of hydroxyl groups resulting from dissociative adsorption
should be one half of that in the initial hydrogen form of the
same zeolite. As follows from comparison of Figs. 1 and 5,
for the zeolite with Si/Al ¼ 25 prepared by reaction of protons
with zinc vapour, the corresponding amount of regenerated
protons observed in our experiments was about 25–30% of
the initial number of protons. This indicates a considerable
fraction of unusual zinc ions close to about 60%.
The stretching frequency of the resulting zinc hydrides is
higher by more than 200 cm1 than that of 1710 cm1 for
hydrides produced by dissociative hydrogen adsorption on
ZnO.18 This is most likely due to stronger polarization of the
Zn–H bond by zinc ions with only partially compensated
positive charges. At elevated temperatures the extent of such
heterolytic dissociative adsorption increases resulting in higher
intensity bands from hydrides and acidic protons.
Conclusion
Our results on the complete substitution of protons by bivalent
zinc ions in MFI frameworks with very high Si/Al ratios pre-
sent experimental evidence for the ﬁrst time of the new charge-
alternating model of localization of bivalent transition metal
cations at well separated negatively charged aluminium atoms.
For the high-silica zeolites this model is quite new, although
similar structures with local alternation of excessive positive
and negative charges forming a large number of monometallic
and mixed-metal oxides with diﬀerent cation valences and lat-
tice oxygen have been well-known for a long time. The unusual
nature of zinc ions at such sites was conﬁrmed by DRIFT
spectra of adsorbed molecular hydrogen and methane and by
dissociative
adsorption
of
hydrogen
at
relatively
low
temperatures.
References
1
A. Hagen and F. Roessner, Catal. Rev., 2000, 42, 403.
2
E. Iglesia and E. Baumgartner, Catal. Today, 1996, 31, 207.
3
J. N. Armor, Catal. Today, 1995, 26, 147.
4
M. Shelef, Chem. Rev., 1995, 95, 209.
5
V. B. Kazansky, V. Yu. Borovkov, A. I. Serykh, R. A. van Santen
and B. G. Anderson, Catal. Lett., 2000, 66, 39.
6
V. B. Kazansky, A. I. Serykh, R. A. van Santen and B. G.
Anderson, Catal. Lett., 2001, 74, 55.
7
V. B. Kazansky, A. I. Serykh and A. T. Bell, Catal. Lett., 2002,
83, 191.
8
V. B. Kazansky, V. Yu. Borovkov, A. I. Serykh, R. A. van Santen
and P. Stobbelar, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 1999, 1, 2881.
9
V. B. Kazansky, A. I. Serykh, B. Anderson and R. A. van Santen,
Catal. Lett., 2003, 88, 211.
10
X. Feng and W. K. Hall, Catal. Lett., 1997, 46, 11.
11
M. J. Rice, A. K. Chaqkrabortry and A. T. Bell, J. Phys. Chem. B,
2000, 104, 9987.
12
G. Engelhardt, in Introduction to Zeolite Science and Technology,
ed. H. van Bekkum, E. M. Flaningen and J. C. Jansen, Elsevier,
Amsterdam, 1991, ch. 8, pp. 285–315.
13
J. Heemsoth, E. Tegeler, F. Roessner and A. Hagen, Microporous
Mesoporous Mater., 2001, 46, 185.
14
A. Seidel and B. Boddenberg, Chem. Phys. Lett., 1996, 249, 117.
15
L. M. Kustov, V. Yu. Borovkov and V. B. Kazansky, Kinet.
Katal., 1984, 25, 471.
16
J. Sarkany, J. L. d’Itri and W. M. H. Sachtler, Catal. Lett., 1992,
16, 241.
17
T. Sprang, A. Seidel, M. Wark, F. Rittner and B. Boddenberg,
J. Mater. Chem., 1997, 7(8), 1429.
18
R. J. Kokes, Acc. Chem. Res., 1973, 6, 226.
3764
P h y s . C h e m . C h e m . P h y s . , 2 0 0 4 , 6 , 3 7 6 0 – 3 7 6 4
T h i s j o u r n a l i s Q T h e O w n e r S o c i e t i e s 2 0 0 4
Published on 14 May 2004. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 31/10/2014 06:13:25. 
View Article Online
