<quotes>
[1] "The intelligent catalyst having the self-regenerative function of Pd, Rh and Pt for automotive emissions control."
[2] "This self-regenerative function provides a new and useful tool for designing the future catalyst technology."
[3] "The important role of the automotive three-way catalyst is widely recognized for the simultaneous conversion of emissions of three pollutants in engine exhaust gases, carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and unburned hydrocarbons (HC) into harmless non-pollutants."
[4] "The conven- tional three-way catalyst consists of fine particles of precious metals dispersed on ceramic support materials such as alumina, ceria, and zirconia."
[5] "However, the catalytic activity of such catalysts deteriorates, owing to the agglomeration and growth of precious metal particles during use."
[6] "It is essential to suppress the growth of precious metal particles to achieve a high efficiency and to conserve precious metals."
[7] "The intelligent Pd-perovskite catalyst has a greatly improved durability as a result of the self-regenerative function of Pd nano-particles."
[8] "It has been confirmed that the catalytic activity can be maintained even when the amount of precious metals is reduced by 70-90%."
[9] "A vehicle equipped with the intelligent catalyst was supplied to the market and succeeded in achieving J-ULEV standard in 2002."
[10] "Moreover, the intelligent catalyst has also succeeded in achieving a new J-SULEV standard, adopted promptly from January 2004."
[11] "The objective of the development of the intelligent catalyst is to reduce of palladium use in automotive industries, and to adjust these demands proportion into the natural source ratio of Pd, Pt, and Rh."
[12] "In order to explain this unique phenomenon, X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) analysis was carried out at the bending-magnet beam lines BL01B1 and BL14B1 of the 8- GeV synchrotron radiation source in SPring-8, Japan."
[13] "The XAFS spectra were measured near the PdK edge in transmission mode because of the high transmissivity of the X-ray."
[14] "At first, Pd in the sample oxidized at 800 °C (800-O) occupied the B-site, in the six-fold coordination with oxygen, of the unit formula of ABO3 in the perovskite structure."
[15] "When the sample was reduced and Pd was segregated from the perovskite crystal to form small metallic particles, the first nearest peak height corresponding to the PdO bond decreased, and the second peak corresponding to the PdPd bond increased as the reduction temperature increased from 200 °C."
[16] "In a re-oxidation atmosphere, the height of the PdPd bond decreased from 200 °C."
[17] "After re-oxidation at 800 °C (800-ORO), the PdPd bond disappeared, and the local structure around Pd was identical to that of the oxidized catalyst (800-O)."
[18] "For comparison with XAFS, the behavior of surface Pd in the reduction treatment was also analyzed by X-ray photo-electron spectroscopy (XPS)."
[19] "In order to answer the first question, the in situ measurement using energy dispersive XAFS (DXAFS) was carried out at beamline ID-24 in ESRF, France."
[20] "The spectra were consecutively measured in 10 ms time resolution."
[21] "For DXAFS, LaFe0.9Pd0.1O3 and Pd/g-Al2O3 containing the same amount (4.3 mass%) of Pd were prepared by the alkoxide method."
[22] "Specific surface area (SSA) of Pd/Al2O3 was ten times as large as that of LaFePdO3."
[23] "It was thought that there was a certain interaction between Pd particles and LaFePdO3 matrix."
[24] "That is, the redox changes in Pd that accompany its segregation from the perovskite crystal are faster than the simple reduction from PdO to Pd on alumina."
[25] "It is proved that the dynamic movements of Pd with the perovskite crystal can respond to the control frequency (1–4 Hz) of an actual gasoline engine."
[26] "To study the self-regenerative properties, perovskite catalysts containing Rh or Pt were prepared by the alkoxide method."
[27] "The XANES spectrum near Rh K-edge for LaFe0.95Rh0.05O3 after each treatment is shown in Fig. 8a, and the calculated radial structure function around Rh is shown in Fig. 8b."
[28] "The XANES spectrum near Pt LIII-edge for CaTi0.95Pt0.05O3 after each treatment is shown in Fig. 10a, and the calculated radial structure function around Rh is shown in Fig. 10b."
[29] "CaTi0.98Pt0.02O3 and Pd/g-Al2O3 catalysts were exposed to actual engine exhaust gas at 900 °C for 100 h and then the Pt particles were examined by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) (Fig. 11)."
[30] "It is proved that a precious metal-containing perovskite catalyst can function as an intelligent catalyst that regenerates itself and maintains a high activity by the cycle forming a solid-solution and segregation even in a harsh redox environment at high temperatures where precious metals normally suffer grain growth, causing deterioration in their catalytic activity."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The self-regenerative function of the intelligent catalyst allows it to maintain high activity by regenerating itself through the movement of precious metals between the B-site in the perovskite structure and metallic nanoparticles in response to inherent redox fluctuations in the exhaust gas. This function enables the catalytic activity to be sustained throughout the vehicle's lifetime, even with a reduced amount of precious metals. The perovskite catalysts containing palladium, rhodium, and platinum demonstrate this self-regenerative property, which provides a new tool for designing future catalyst technologies. The catalysts have been successfully implemented in vehicles, achieving the Japanese Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle (J-ULEV) standard in 2002 and the new Super-Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle (J-SULEV) standard in 2004. The development aims to reduce the use of palladium in automotive industries, aligning the demand for precious metals with their natural source ratios. The catalysts have been studied using X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) analyses, which revealed that the movement of palladium between the perovskite structure and metallic nanoparticles is reversible and responds to redox fluctuations. In situ measurements have shown that the catalysts can respond to the control frequency of gasoline engine exhaust gases. The self-regenerative function is not limited to palladium, as similar properties have been observed in catalysts containing rhodium and platinum. These findings suggest that the self-regenerative function can be extended to various catalyst technologies, potentially solving supply-demand issues for precious metals in automotive applications. The technology is expected to contribute to cleaner air emissions and could be applicable beyond automobiles to various internal combustion engines. Further development of this technology may lead to vehicles emitting exhaust gases cleaner than ambient air. The intelligent catalyst technology represents a significant advancement in material design and is anticipated to play a crucial role in addressing the socioeconomic problem related to the supply and demand for precious metals.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
智能催化剂通过在过氧化物结构中的B位点和金属纳米颗粒之间移动贵金属来维持高活性，响应排气气体中固有的还原性和氧化性波动。这种自再生功能使得催化活性在整个车辆生命周期内得以持续，即使使用较少的贵金属。钯、铑和铂的过氧化物催化剂都表现出这种自再生特性，为设计未来催化剂技术提供了一个新的工具。这些催化剂已在车辆上成功实施，于2002年达到日本超低排放汽车（J-ULEV）标准，并于2004年达到新的超级超低排放汽车（J-SULEV）标准。开发旨在减少汽车工业中钯的使用量，并将对贵金属的需求调整到其自然来源比例。使用X射线吸收精细结构（XAFS）分析研究了催化剂，揭示了钯在过氧化物结构与金属颗粒之间的移动是可逆的，并能响应还原性波动。就地测量表明，催化剂能够响应汽油发动机排气气体的控制频率。自再生功能不仅限于钯，催化剂中含有的铑和铂也显示出相似的性质。这些发现表明，自再生功能可以扩展到各种催化剂技术中，可能解决汽车应用中贵金属的供需问题。这项技术预计将对更清洁空气排放做出贡献，并有可能应用于各种内燃机。进一步发展这一技术可能会导致车辆排放的尾气比大气空气更清洁。智能催化剂技术代表了材料设计的一个重大进步，并有望在解决与贵金属供应和需求相关的问题方面发挥关键作用。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
