<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "Pt is one of the most commonly used commercial catalysts for PDH.2 It is generally accepted that the dehydrogenation of propane over Pt catalyst follows the reverse HoriutiPolanyi mechanism.274"
          [2] "The deeply dehydrogenated intermediate of propyne (CH3CCH*) was identified as an important surface species for the CC bond breaking because it is the sole C3 species that energetically prefers the cleavage of the CC bond to the CH bond breaking, which has also been determined by the micro- kinetic analysis on Pt(111).340,353"
          [3] "The microkinetic modeling of the side reactions of CC bond cracking and deep dehydrogenation, and coke for- mation indicates that the catalyst deactivation is due to the formation of CH3CC* and C*, which lead to cracking and eventual coke formation, respectively.340,353"
          [4] "The higher coking rate on small Pt clusters is due to the larger Pt surface area,and the faster coke formation resulted in faster deactivation."
          [5] "Therefore, the rational construction of a Pt surface structure can be a crucial factor in improving catalytic selectivity and controlling coke formation."
          [6] "The DFT studies by Zhu et al. identified propylene as the precursor for the formation of byproducts such as coke.354 Strong adsorption of propylene means that the surface-adsorbed propylene molecule prefers dehydrogenation to desorption, leading to the deep dehydrogenation and crack- ing of the subsequent C3 derivatives."
          [7] "The critical challenge to gain a high selectivity to propylene and stable catalysts is to weaken the propylene adsorption strength and suppress the deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts."
          [8] "Under high-temperature reaction conditions, the interaction between Pt and propylene is strong, and side reactions readily occur to form coke and deactivate the catalyst, so the propylene selectivity is around 6080%, and the catalyst stability is poor."
          [9] "To increase the selectivity toward propylene at rela- tively high catalytic activity, various attempts have been made to modify the geometrical and electronic structures of Pt-based catalysts,2,371,372 such as controlling the size and shape of Pt NPs, alloying Pt with TMs or main-group metals, and selecting appropriate catalyst supports."
          [10] "The work also reported that the addition of Sn can help Pt re- disperse in the catalyst regeneration by providing nucleation sites on the g-Al2O3 surface to achieve superior catalyst stability."
          [11] "The promoter towards CeO2 can enhance both lattice oxygen sto- rage capacity and surface oxygen mobility to increase the reducibility of CeO2 and consequently reduce the coke deposi- tion and improve the catalyst stability."
          [12] "The dopants can promote the dispersion of Pt particles and thus prevent their sintering,suppress the structure-sensitive side reactions including hydrogenolysis and deep dehydrogenation to reduce the rate of carbon deposition, and promote the migration of carbon deposition from active metal components to the carrier,etc."
          [13] "In addition, some novel coreshell Pt-based catalysts can not only improve the catalytic performance but also effectively increase the utilization efficiency of precious metals."
          [14] "The coreshell catalysts were found to have less negative propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies for the dehydrogena- tion reactions than Pt, thus giving rise to lower catalytic activity and a higher selectivity toward propylene,"
          [15] "Therefore, through the experimental exploration for PtCo alloy catalysts, it is found that the catalysts exhibit superior PDH performance, especially catalytic selectivity, con- sistent with the results obtained by Xiao et al."
          [16] "The use of dopants can improve the selectivity of Pt-based catalysts, suppress catalyst deactivation, and extend the use time of catalysts."
          [17] "Moreover, selecting suitable catalyst supports is also an effective way to modify the catalytic performance of metal catalysts for PDH."
          [18] "The reasons are that the electrons could be transferred from the partially reduced TiOx (x o 2) to the Pt atoms, and the partial coverage of the metal surface by TiOx species, and thus the increased electron density of Pt can hinder propylene adsorption on active metal sites and facilitate coke migration from the active sites to the carrier."
          [19] "Pt is one of the most commonly used commercial catalysts for PDH, and the dehydrogenation of propane over Pt catalyst follows the reverse HoriutiPolanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is an important intermediate for the CC bond breaking. The catalyst deactivation is due to the formation of CH3CC* and C*, which lead to cracking and eventual coke formation. The higher coking rate on small Pt clusters is due to the larger Pt surface area, and the faster coke formation results in faster deactivation. The rational construction of a Pt surface structure can be a crucial factor in improving catalytic selectivity and controlling coke formation. Propylene is identified as the precursor for the formation of byproducts such as coke. Strong adsorption of propylene leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking of subsequent C3 derivatives. The critical challenge is to weaken the propylene adsorption strength and suppress the deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts. Under high-temperature reaction conditions, the interaction between Pt and propylene is strong, and side reactions readily occur to form coke and deactivate the catalyst. To increase the selectivity toward propylene, various attempts have been made to modify the geometrical and electronic structures of Pt-based catalysts, such as controlling the size and shape of Pt NPs, alloying Pt with TMs or main-group metals, and selecting appropriate catalyst supports. The addition of Sn can help Pt redistribute in the catalyst regeneration by providing nucleation sites on the g-Al2O3 surface to achieve superior catalyst stability. The promoter towards CeO2 can enhance both lattice oxygen storage capacity and surface oxygen mobility to increase the reducibility of CeO2 and consequently reduce the coke deposition and improve the catalyst stability. The dopants can promote the dispersion of Pt particles and prevent their sintering, suppress the structure-sensitive side reactions, reduce the rate of carbon deposition, and promote the migration of carbon deposition from active metal components to the carrier. Some novel coreshell Pt-based catalysts can not only improve the catalytic performance but also effectively increase the utilization efficiency of precious metals. The coreshell catalysts have less negative propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies for the dehydrogenation reactions than Pt, thus giving rise to lower catalytic activity and a higher selectivity toward propylene. The catalysts exhibit superior PDH performance, especially catalytic selectivity, consistent with the results obtained by Xiao et al. The use of dopants can improve the selectivity of Pt-based catalysts, suppress catalyst deactivation, and extend the use time of catalysts. Selecting suitable catalyst supports is also an effective way to modify the catalytic performance of metal catalysts for PDH. The electrons could be transferred from the partially reduced TiOx (x o 2) to the Pt atoms, and the partial coverage of the metal surface by TiOx species increases the electron density of Pt, which can hinder propylene adsorption on active metal sites and facilitate coke migration from the active sites to the carrier."
          [20] "Pt is one of the most commonly used commercial catalysts for PDH, and the dehydrogenation of propane over Pt catalyst follows the reverse HoriutiPolanyi mechanism. The dehydrogenation steps from propane to propylene can describe the catalytic activity of metal surfaces for propylene production. The deeply dehydrogenated intermediate of propyne (CH3CCH*) is an important surface species for the CC bond breaking. The catalyst deactivation is due to the formation of CH3CC* and C*, which lead to cracking and eventual coke formation. The addition of Sn can help Pt re-disperse in the catalyst regeneration by providing nucleation sites on the g-Al2O3 surface to achieve superior catalyst stability. The promoter towards CeO2 can enhance both lattice oxygen sto- rage capacity and surface oxygen mobility to increase the reducibility of CeO2 and consequently reduce the coke deposition and improve the catalyst stability. The dopants can promote the dispersion of Pt particles and thus prevent their sintering, suppress the structure-sensitive side reactions including hydrogenolysis and deep dehydrogenation to reduce the rate of carbon deposition, and promote the migration of carbon deposition from active metal components to the carrier."
          [21] "Pt is one of the most commonly used commercial catalysts for PDH, and the dehydrogenation of propane over Pt catalyst follows the reverse HoriutiPolanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is an important intermediate for CC bond breaking. Strong adsorption of propylene leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking of subsequent C3 derivatives, forming byproducts such as coke, which lowers propylene selectivity. The critical challenge is to weaken the propylene adsorption strength and suppress deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts."
          [22] "Under high-temperature reaction conditions, the interaction between Pt and propylene is strong, leading to side reactions that form coke and deactivate the catalyst. The propylene selectivity is around 60-80%, and the catalyst stability is poor."
          [23] "Addition of Sn can help Pt redistribute in the catalyst regeneration, providing nucleation sites on the g-Al2O3 surface to achieve superior catalyst stability. The promoter towards CeO2 can enhance lattice oxygen storage capacity and surface oxygen mobility, reducing coke deposition and improving catalyst stability. Dopants can promote the dispersion of Pt particles, prevent their sintering, suppress structure-sensitive side reactions, reduce the rate of carbon deposition, and promote the migration of carbon deposition from active metal components to the carrier."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to produce propene is a common industrial process that typically uses platinum (Pt) as a catalyst. The reaction follows the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism. Propyne (CH3CCH*) is an important intermediate for CC bond breaking. The catalyst deactivation is due to the formation of CH3CC* and C*, leading to cracking and eventual coke formation. The higher coking rate on small Pt clusters is due to the larger Pt surface area, resulting in faster deactivation. The rational construction of a Pt surface structure can improve catalytic selectivity and control coke formation. Propylene is identified as a precursor for the formation of byproducts such as coke. Strong adsorption of propylene leads to deep dehydrogenation and cracking of subsequent C3 derivatives. The critical challenge is to weaken the propylene adsorption strength and suppress the deep dehydrogenation on Pt-based catalysts. Under high-temperature reaction conditions, the interaction between Pt and propylene is strong, leading to side reactions that form coke and deactivate the catalyst. The propylene selectivity is around 60-80%, and the catalyst stability is poor. To increase the selectivity toward propylene, various attempts have been made to modify the geometrical and electronic structures of Pt-based catalysts, such as controlling the size and shape of Pt NPs, alloying Pt with TMs or main-group metals, and selecting appropriate catalyst supports. The addition of Sn can help Pt redistribute in the catalyst regeneration by providing nucleation sites on the g-Al2O3 surface to achieve superior catalyst stability. The promoter towards CeO2 can enhance both lattice oxygen storage capacity and surface oxygen mobility to increase the reducibility of CeO2 and consequently reduce the coke deposition and improve the catalyst stability. The dopants can promote the dispersion of Pt particles and prevent their sintering, suppress the structure-sensitive side reactions, reduce the rate of carbon deposition, and promote the migration of carbon deposition from active metal components to the carrier. Some novel coreshell Pt-based catalysts can not only improve the catalytic performance but also effectively increase the utilization efficiency of precious metals. The coreshell catalysts have less negative propylene adsorption energies and higher activation energies for the dehydrogenation reactions than Pt, thus giving rise to lower catalytic activity and a higher selectivity toward propylene. The catalysts exhibit superior PDH performance, especially catalytic selectivity, consistent with the results obtained by Xiao et al. The use of dopants can improve the selectivity of Pt-based catalysts, suppress catalyst deactivation, and extend the use time of catalysts. Selecting suitable catalyst supports is also an effective way to modify the catalytic performance of metal catalysts for PDH. The electrons could be transferred from the partially reduced TiOx (x o 2) to the Pt atoms, and the partial coverage of the metal surface by TiOx species increases the electron density of Pt, which can hinder propylene adsorption on active metal sites and facilitate coke migration from the active sites to the carrier.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          丙烷脱氢(PDH)生产丙烯是工业上常见的过程，通常使用铂(Pt)作为催化剂。反应遵循逆Horiuti-Polanyi机制。丙炔(CH3CCH*)是CC键断裂的重要中间体。催化剂失活是由于形成CH3CC*和C*，导致裂解和最终焦炭形成。小Pt簇上的较高焦炭形成率是由于较大的Pt表面积，导致更快的失活。合理构建Pt表面结构可以提高催化选择性和控制焦炭形成。丙烯被鉴定为焦炭等副产物形成的前体。丙烯的强吸附会导致后续C3衍生物的深度脱氢和裂解。关键的挑战是减弱丙烯在Pt基催化剂上的吸附强度，抑制深度脱氢。在高温反应条件下，铂和丙烯之间的相互作用强烈，导致形成焦炭和催化剂失活的副反应。丙烯的选择性约为60-80%，催化剂稳定性较差。为了提高丙烯的选择性，已经尝试了各种方法来修改Pt基催化剂的几何和电子结构，例如控制Pt纳米粒子的大小和形状，将Pt与过渡金属或主族金属合金化，以及选择合适的催化剂载体。Sn的添加可以帮助Pt在催化剂再生中重新分布，通过在g-Al2O3表面上提供成核位点，实现更优的催化剂稳定性。CeO2的促进剂可以增强晶格氧的存储能力和表面氧的流动性，提高CeO2的还原性，从而减少焦炭沉积，提高催化剂稳定性。掺杂剂可以促进Pt颗粒的分散，防止它们烧结，抑制结构敏感的副反应，降低碳沉积的速率，并促进碳沉积从活性金属组分向载体的迁移。一些新型的Pt基核壳催化剂不仅可以提高催化性能，还可以有效地提高贵金属的利用效率。核壳催化剂的丙烯吸附能比铂更小，脱氢反应的活化能更高，从而导致较低的催化活性和较高的丙烯选择性。催化剂表现出优异的PDH性能，特别是在催化选择性方面，与Xiao等人获得的结果一致。使用掺杂剂可以提高Pt基催化剂的选择性，抑制催化剂失活，延长催化剂的使用寿命。此外，选择合适的催化剂载体也是修改金属催化剂PDH催化性能的有效途径。电子可以从部分还原的TiOx(x o 2)转移到Pt原子，金属表面的部分覆盖TiOx物种增加了Pt的电子密度，这可以阻碍丙烯在活性金属位点的吸附，并促进焦炭从活性位点向载体的迁移。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
