<quotes>

[1] "Pt is one of the most commonly used commercial catalysts for PDH.2 It is generally accepted that the dehydrogenation of propane over Pt catalyst follows the reverse HoriutiPolanyi mechanism.274 The dehydrogenation steps from propane to propylene is shown in Fig. 28(a) (steps 14),and the energy barriers for these four steps can describe the catalytic activity of metal surfaces for propylene production.357"
[2] "The deeply dehydrogenated intermediate of propyne (CH3CCH*) was identified as an important surface species for the CC bond breaking because it is the sole C3 species that energetically prefers the cleavage of the CC bond to the CH bond breaking, which has also been determined by the micro- kinetic analysis on Pt(111).340,353"
[3] "The microkinetic modeling of the side reactions of CC bond cracking and deep dehydrogenation, and coke for- mation indicates that the catalyst deactivation is due to the formation of CH3CC* and C*, which lead to cracking and eventual coke formation, respectively.340,353"
[4] "The work also reported that the addition of Sn can help Pt re- disperse in the catalyst regeneration by providing nucleation sites on the g-Al2O3 surface to achieve superior catalyst stability.381"
[5] "The promoter towards CeO2 can enhance both lattice oxygen sto- rage capacity and surface oxygen mobility to increase the reducibility of CeO2 and consequently reduce the coke deposi- tion and improve the catalyst stability.376"
[6] "The dopants can promote the dispersion of Pt particles and thus prevent their sintering,suppress the structure-sensitive side reactions including hydrogenolysis and deep dehydrogenation to reduce the rate of carbon deposition, and promote the migration of carbon deposition from active metal components to the carrier,etc.380,383,384"

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Pt is one of the most commonly used commercial catalysts for PDH, and the dehydrogenation of propane over Pt catalyst follows the reverse HoriutiPolanyi mechanism. The dehydrogenation steps from propane to propylene can describe the catalytic activity of metal surfaces for propylene production. The deeply dehydrogenated intermediate of propyne (CH3CCH*) is an important surface species for the CC bond breaking. The catalyst deactivation is due to the formation of CH3CC* and C*, which lead to cracking and eventual coke formation. The addition of Sn can help Pt re-disperse in the catalyst regeneration by providing nucleation sites on the g-Al2O3 surface to achieve superior catalyst stability. The promoter towards CeO2 can enhance both lattice oxygen sto- rage capacity and surface oxygen mobility to increase the reducibility of CeO2 and consequently reduce the coke deposition and improve the catalyst stability. The dopants can promote the dispersion of Pt particles and thus prevent their sintering, suppress the structure-sensitive side reactions including hydrogenolysis and deep dehydrogenation to reduce the rate of carbon deposition, and promote the migration of carbon deposition from active metal components to the carrier.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.铂是丙烷脱氢(PDH)中最常用的商业催化剂之一，丙烷在铂催化剂上的脱氢遵循逆向HoriutiPolanyi机制。从丙烷到丙烯的脱氢步骤可以描述金属表面生产丙烯的催化活性。深度脱氢的丙炔(CH3CCH*)中间体是CC键断裂的重要表面物种。催化剂失活是由于形成CH3CC*和C*，导致裂解和最终焦炭形成。添加Sn可以帮助Pt在催化剂再生中重新分散，通过在g-Al2O3表面提供成核位点，实现优异的催化剂稳定性。CeO2的促进剂可以增强晶格氧的储存能力和表面氧的流动性，提高CeO2的还原性，从而减少焦炭沉积，提高催化剂稳定性。掺杂剂可以促进Pt颗粒的分散，从而防止其烧结，抑制结构敏感的副反应，包括氢解和深度脱氢，以降低碳沉积的速率，并促进碳沉积从活性金属组分向载体的迁移。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
