<quotes>
Kinetic studies show that addition of Sn to Pt enhances the selectivity for isobutylene formation at temperatures near 700 K.
Mssbauer spectroscopic studies show that Sn interacts with Pt to produce a Pt/Sn alloy.
Microcalorimetric investigations show that addition of Sn reduces the number of sites that strongly interact with hydrogen or carbon monoxide.
The elimination of stronger adsorption sites may be caused by preferential blocking of sites by tin or weakening of sites due to ligand effects.
However, strong adsorption sites are present on a Pt/Sn catalyst that exhibits high dehydrogenation selectivity.
Microcalorimetric studies of ethylene adsorption suggest that addition of Sn inhibits the formation of highly dehydrogenated surface species.
These results suggest that high dehydrogenation selectivity achieved by addition of Sn to Pt is caused by a decrease in the size of surface Pt ensembles.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The kinetic, microcalorimetric, and Mssbauer spectroscopic studies indicate that adding tin (Sn) to platinum (Pt) catalysts enhances the selectivity for isobutylene formation at around 700 K. The Sn-Pt interaction creates an alloy, reducing the number of strong adsorption sites for hydrogen and carbon monoxide. This reduction might occur due to preferential blocking or weakening of these sites, although some strong adsorption sites remain on a Pt/Sn catalyst with high dehydrogenation selectivity. Additionally, the microcalorimetric studies on ethylene adsorption suggest that the addition of Sn hinders the formation of highly dehydrogenated surface species. Consequently, the high selectivity in dehydrogenation achieved by incorporating Sn into Pt catalysts is attributed to a decrease in the size of surface Pt ensembles.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
这些动力学、微热容量和Mössbauer光谱研究表明，向铂（Pt）催化剂中添加锡（Sn）可以在约700 K时提高异丁烷转化为异丁烯的选择性。Sn与Pt的相互作用形成了一个Sn-Pt合金，减少了与氢和一氧化碳的强吸附位点的数量。这种减少可能由于优先堵塞或由于配体效应削弱这些位点而发生，尽管在具有高脱氢选择性的Sn-Pt催化剂上仍然存在一些强吸附位点。此外，对乙烷吸附的微热容量研究表明，添加Sn抑制了表面物种的强烈脱氢化形成。因此，通过在Pt催化剂中加入Sn实现的高脱氢选择性归因于表面Pt簇尺寸的减小。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
