Chemical Education Today
944
Journal of Chemical Education  •  Vol. 79  No. 8  August 2002  •  JChemEd.chem.wisc.edu
Book & Media Reviews
Holleman-Wiberg’s Inorganic Chemistry
edited by Nils Wiberg
Academic Press: New York, NY, 2001. xxxix + 1884 pp.
ISBN 0-12-352651-5. $175
reviewed by William B. Jensen
The first edition of this textbook was published in 1898
by the Dutch chemist, Arnold Frederick Holleman (1859–
1953). In 1900 it was translated into German and in this
form rapidly became one of the most popular texts in the
field. As of 1995, it has passed through 34 German edi-
tions and more than 100 printings. In 1943 editorship of
the text was taken over by the German chemist, Egon
Wiberg, and since then it has become known simply as
Holleman-Wiberg among German-speaking chemists.
Though the book’s cover claims that the current edition,
under the editorship of Nils Wiberg, is the first to be trans-
lated into English, this is, in fact, not true. The original
Dutch edition was actually translated into English in 1902
by Hermon Cooper of Syracuse University and went
through at least six editions by 1921. By then it had become
too advanced for use in most American universities, few of
which taught inorganic courses beyond the freshman level
prior to the Second World War.
The current translation weighs in at 1884 pages and
is printed on a light-weight grade of paper that has some
problems with print bleed through. The size is a consequence
of the book’s attempt to be thorough in its coverage.
Chemical Education Today
JChemEd.chem.wisc.edu  •  Vol. 79  No. 8  August 2002  •  Journal of Chemical Education
945
Whereas most American inorganic texts deal primarily with
either concepts and models or with systematic descriptive
chemistry (and, in the latter case, are often biased toward
coverage of the transition metals), this text attempts to
include both approaches. This is done by dividing the book
into four sections: Part A, (8 chapters, 276 pages) deals with
fundamental concepts; Part B (10 chapters, 848 pages) deals
with the chemistry of the main-group elements; Part C (14
chapters, 514 pages) deals with the chemistry of the outer-
transition elements, and Part D (4 chapters, 104 pages) deals
with the chemistry of the lanthanoids and actinoids. These
are followed by 27 pages of appendices and by both a name
and subject index.
The coverage of concepts in Part A is basically at the level
of an advanced freshman text. Given the average student’s
claims of total amnesia when it comes to the contents of ear-
lier courses, this is probably not a bad idea and is also in keep-
ing with the editor’s stated claim that the book is intended
for use by both beginning and advanced students. Compared
with the dog-and-pony show that now passes for the average
freshman textbook—with its multicolored pages, photos,
sidebars, and supplementary CD’s—it is refreshing to see this
material presented using straight-forward, unpretentious, black
and white, line drawings and print.
The coverage of descriptive chemistry in Parts B, C, and
D includes not only the latest research results but also basic
information on naturally occurring mineral sources of the
elements and on important industrial processes, such as iron
smelting, the chemistry of glass, ceramics and cement—top-
ics that have all but disappeared from most American text-
books.
One unique feature of the book is its four-part cover-
age of the periodic law—an introductory chapter for Part
A, and general overview chapters on each of the three major
electronic blocks distributed among Parts B, C, and D.
Regrettably, the book’s treatment of this topic is one of the
few with which I would take issue. Part C incorrectly classi-
fies La and Ac as d-block or outer-transition metals even
though extensive evidence was presented over 20 years ago
(J. Chem. Educ. 1982, 59, 634–636) showing that they are
in fact f-block elements with irregular configurations and
that Lu and Lr actually occupy the positions below Sc and
Y in the d-block. Even more serious is the insistence that
Zn, Cd, and Hg are outer-transition metals, though in fact
there is nothing in either their electronic configurations or
their known chemistry that could possibly justify such a clas-
sification. A related, albeit minor, criticism is the book’s
decision to use the terms lanthanide and actinide rather than
Chemical Education Today
946
Journal of Chemical Education  •  Vol. 79  No. 8  August 2002  •  JChemEd.chem.wisc.edu
Book & Media Reviews
the more linguistically correct terms lanthanoid and actinoid.
Despite these reservations, I strongly recommend this
book. I found interesting and useful information on every
topic I looked up. It is a model of thoroughness and orga-
nization and a must reference book for every serious teacher,
whether of freshman chemistry or advanced inorganic
chemistry. It would also make a wonderful textbook, though
its size would naturally limit its use to those schools which
offer at least a full year’s sequence in inorganic chemistry.
William B. Jensen is Oesper Professor of Chemical Educa-
tion and History of Chemistry in the Department of Chemistry,
University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45221-0172,
jensenwb@email.uc.edu.
