<quotes>
[1] "The activation energy for the carbon monoxide oxidation reaction on nickel oxide is not affected at low temperature (100- 180') by the addition of foreign ions to the nickel oxide lattice."
[2] "At higher temperatures, however, the activation energy o f the catalytic reaction is dependent upon the type o f addition."
[3] "The addition o f foreign ions into the nickel oxide lattice might modify the concentration and distribution of holes and electrons by suitable changes o f the Fermi level of the semi-conductor."
[4] "Although the effect has been ob- served so far on the over-all activation energy, it may lead, if substantiated by further experimental work, to a method for controlling, at least qualitatively, the activation energies of heterogeneous processes occurring on semi-conducting materials."
[5] "The effect of water is explainable on the basis of the Tanford-Pease theory of flame speeds."
[6] "Tanford and Pease? have put forward a theory of burning velocity which assumes that the rate of flame propagation is determined by the rate at which atoms and radicals from the burned gas diffuse into and react with the unburned fuel."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The presence of foreign ions in the nickel oxide lattice has been shown to influence the activation energy of the catalytic oxidation of carbon monoxide, particularly at higher temperatures. This effect is linked to changes in the electronic properties of the nickel oxide, which can be altered by the introduction of foreign ions. The addition of these ions can modify the concentration and distribution of holes and electrons, affecting the Fermi level of the semiconductor. This finding suggests a potential method for controlling the activation energies of heterogeneous processes occurring on semiconductor materials. Additionally, the impact of water on the burning velocity of cyanogen-oxygen-argon mixtures can be explained based on the Tanford-Pease theory of flame speeds. According to this theory, the rate of flame propagation is determined by the diffusion of atoms and radicals from the burned gas into and reacting with the unburned fuel. The hydroxyl radical plays a more significant role in determining the rate of flame propagation compared to the hydrogen atom.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在镍氧化物晶格中添加外来离子已经证明了在较低温度下（100-180°C）对一氧化碳氧化反应的活化能没有影响。然而，在较高温度下，催化反应的活化能依赖于添加的类型。这种效应与电子性质的变化有关，这些变化是由引入晶格中的外来离子带来的，它们可能改变半导体的费米能级。这些发现表明，有可能通过进一步的实验工作来验证，从而为控制在半导体材料上发生的异相过程的活化能提供一种方法，至少是定性地。此外，水对氰化氢-氧气-氩气混合物燃烧速度的影响可以用Tanford-Pease理论解释火焰速度。根据这一理论，火焰传播速率由燃烧气体中扩散到未燃烧燃料中的原子和自由基的速率决定。羟基自由基在确定火焰传播速率方面比氢原子更重要。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
