I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Catalysis by Doped Oxides
SPECIAL ISSUE
This article is part of the 2013 Surface Chemistry of Oxides special issue. 1 Introduction ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To Metal oxide catalysts have numerous industrial applications. (1-7) In addition, oxides catalyze many important reactions whose conversion or selectivity is too low to be commercially interesting. We review here experiments and calculations whose goal was to improve the catalytic activity of an oxide by substituting a small fraction of the cations of a host oxide with a different cation. We call this substitutional doping or doping. The substitution disrupts chemical bonding at the surface of the host oxide, and optimists hope that this will modify favorably its catalytic activity. The active centers in such a system could be either the oxygen atoms near the dopant or the dopant itself.
This is not the only kind of creative disturbance that can activate the surface of an oxide. The catalytic activity of a small (molecular size) cluster MeOx (where Me is a cation, O is oxygen, and x is usually unknown) supported on the surface of another oxide (or any other insulator) is often very different from that of the bulk oxide of Me. For example, VOx clusters supported on ceria (8, 9) are more active for methanol oxidation (and many other reactions) than either V2O5 or CeO2. The so-called inverse catalysts are similar. They consist of a very thin oxide film supported on a metal surface. (10-30) In this system, as in the other two mentioned above, we place the oxygen atoms in unusual bonding situations with the intention of improving their ability to catalyze oxidation reactions.
Substitutional cation doping is not the only possibility. One can imagine that replacing some anions with other anions may also be beneficial. There is evidence that the presence of small amounts of halogen in the feed or on the oxide surface improves its catalytic activity (more often the selectivity). (31-53) We do not know of any work that has proven that the improvements come from the substitution of some of the oxygen atoms with halogens. Anion doping is beneficial for changing the optical properties of photocatalysts as reviewed recently by Kudo. (54) In this Review, we discuss only oxidation catalysis by substitutional cation doping of binary oxides (oxides with the formula MexOy), and leave out complex oxides (e.g., perovskites, vanadates). This is an emerging field, which is rapidly evolving and is very far from maturity; therefore, it is not advisable to attempt the kind of exhaustive review typical of mature fields. Instead, we concentrate on the main ideas and the major difficulties of the field, try to sort out its prospects, suggest future lines of research, and examine the extent to which computations aid the search for better doped-oxide catalysts. Rather than attempt to cover all work on catalysis by doped oxides, which is rather vast and fragmentary, we examine in some depth a few examples on which data are more abundant and the research is more extensive and more systematic. One example deals with the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of ethylbenzene to styrene, by using oxygen or CO2 as oxidant. The other example examines the ODH of ethane with oxygen. We decided that piling up more examples would not bring more clarity to our understanding of the subject. This decision was made easier by our awareness of the finite nature of our time, energy, and intellectual resources.
We note that we present scientific research rather than focus on efforts directed toward finding the best commercial catalyst. This means that some aspects that are essential for deciding whether a catalyst is commercially promising are not addressed in this article. An excellent discussion of the criteria that a commercial catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation must meet can be found in Chapter 5 of the book by Centi, Cavani, and Trifiro. (7) As we worked on this article, several themes became central. On the experimental side two facts imposed themselves on us: The performance depends strongly on the method of preparation; and it is difficult to provide convincing proof that a doped oxide has been prepared. For this reason, we devoted a section to the methods of preparation and one to the methods of characterization.
There has been considerable computational work on various properties of doped oxides. There are inherent limitations in this work. First, we know that the computational methods usable in practice do not give accurate total energies. Second, we do not know, at the atomic level, the morphology or the composition of an oxide catalyst under working conditions. The latter is a shortcoming of the experiments. We could perform useful calculations on any morphology or any surface composition, if we knew what they are. Unfortunately, experiments are not likely to provide this information soon, despite the great progress made lately in operando microscopy and spectroscopy. For these reasons, we believe that computations are most useful, at this time, if they look for qualitative trends and qualitative rules for catalyst design. They should help increase the probability of finding better oxide catalysts. This opinion has guided the way we examined the computations and organized the presentation of their results. The calculations performed so far provide a classification of the dopantoxide pairs based on the common properties obtained by computations. One of the questions we ask in this Review is: Are there hints in the experiments that these rules are obeyed? Given the uncertainties in the experiments, we can only say that many experimental results are in accord with the qualitative suggestions made by computations.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does substitutional cation doping in metal oxide catalysts modify surface chemistry and disrupt chemical bonding, and what are the resulting implications for catalytic activity enhancement, the nature and location of active centers, and potential improvements in industrially relevant reactions?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 