Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Unique surface activity is observed only when annealed to 600 K, unlike Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces at 300 K. At 600 K, monolayer Ni diffuses into the subsurface region of Pt(111), producing PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the study of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, with high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, allows investigation of atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy configurations. At elevated temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy, with a Ni20Pt80 composition, emerges. This detailed characterization is essential for computational studies and catalysis applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, correlating bimetallic structures with electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed, while annealing to 600-640 K suggests Ni diffusion into the subsurface, potentially forming a PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals on metallic substrates, including the deposition and heteroepitaxial growth of A on B, has seen significant growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite this, specific details on characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are scarce in the literature. The Ni on Pt(111) system, though not extensively studied theoretically, is pertinent for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research, as suggested by Majerus et al.'s work on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, reveals structural phases: pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram and NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities enhance advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, altering hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways on bimetallic surfaces. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway. AES and TPD experiments, used for Co/Pt(111) surfaces, highlight methods for analyzing bimetallic surfaces, crucial for understanding atomic-level reactivity and comparing with Pt(111) and thick Co films.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, combining experimental techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS with DFT modeling, elucidates the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms, confirmed by DFT and experiments, leads to a shift in the d-band center, affecting adsorption energies and catalytic behavior. This comprehensive approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface presence, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces can exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch during synthesis modifies surface electronic properties due to strain effects, while heterometallic bond formation, known as the ligand effect, further alters these properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for describing changes in electronic properties, correlating with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show that surface alloys enriched in Pt can form at elevated temperatures. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways, including hydrogenation, decomposition, and dehydrogenation. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibits a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces is too strong for hydrogenation. DFT modeling and experimental results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces, providing insights into catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative method involves depositing Pt on Ni(100) to study fundamental properties and reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface changes with reactivity upon adding a second constituent.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, revealing its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates how the bimetallic surface's properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties that are distinct from the individual components. This understanding is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, achieved by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Characterization using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction enables structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties. This process facilitates the study of surface reactivity and selectivity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts and understanding the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity. Precise control over surface composition and structure is essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, as well as fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process reveals unique surface activity only at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. After annealing to 600 K, probe reactions show distinct surface activity. Studies show this difference is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, creating PtNiPt(111) structures, crucial for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized for structural modeling and DFT calculations, crucial for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' influence on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, with high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, enables atomic scale interaction studies and metastable alloy phase formation. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80 composition) is created. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K, and after annealing to 600-640 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals on metallic substrates has seen significant growth, with a focus on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of theoretical literature on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al. conducted effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, providing relevant insights into the system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages reveals insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. While direct Ni/Pt characterization isn't detailed, studies on Co/Pt(111) using AES and TPD highlight the importance of such techniques in elucidating bimetallic surfaces' unique reactivity and properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical calculations, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the unique catalytic behavior of these surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms leads to a shift in the d-band center, affecting adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. DFT modeling and surface science experiments elucidate the unique properties of these surfaces, which often surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Ni-modified Pt(111) show that surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, while subsurface Ni moves it away. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) surfaces. The combined experimental and theoretical approach establishes a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the correlation of surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Though specific details are scarce in literature, the process's significance for advanced research is implied.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, revealing its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. This fundamental understanding of the PtNi system is crucial for catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process illuminates how the bimetallic surface's properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties unique to bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This characterization is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis research. It enables the study of reactivity and selectivity towards reactions like hydrodesulfurization of thiophene, guiding the design of efficient catalysts and providing insights into metal-hydrogen bond roles in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties vital for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, employs surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems emerges at 600 K, differing from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces at 300 K. At 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface of Pt(111), forming PtNiPt(111) structures, explaining the observed differences.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, undergo structural changes that form a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embed Ni on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy emerges, critical for understanding electronic and chemical properties. This detailed characterization is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and insights into catalytic activity and magnetism, making Ni/Pt surfaces valuable for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms the surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This is essential for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is a focus of growing interest, particularly for the deposition and heteroepitaxial growth of metals on metallic substrates. Despite its potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, specific details on the characterization of Ni/Pt surfaces are scarce in the literature. Notably, the Ni on Pt(111) system has not been extensively studied theoretically, except for a calculation by Majerus et al. on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, which is pertinent to understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process reveals initial growth, alloy formation, and structural phases, including pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram determined by LEED and the investigation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages provide insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and ethylene/cyclohexene reactions. AES and TPD experiments on Co/Pt(111) have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway, highlighting the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms. This interaction shifts the d-band center of surface Pt atoms, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins. Surface science techniques provide structural information crucial for accurate DFT modeling, enhancing our understanding of catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Characterization confirms these structures, with DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggesting PtNiPt(111) formation. This process is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research, aiding in structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys enriched in Pt exhibit altered electronic properties. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The study establishes a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces, using cyclohexene as a probe molecule. Surfaces were prepared by physical vapor deposition and characterized using AES and MS in a UHV chamber. DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, showing the boat configuration as thermodynamically preferred for di-σ bonded cyclohexene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in the fundamental understanding of PtNi surfaces. This process correlates surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation studies ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111), which parallels the process for Ni/Pt surfaces. The correlation between core-level W 4f7/2 binding energies and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) is critical for understanding the electronic properties of bimetallic interfaces. This method enables the identification of interfacial binding energies, crucial for comprehensive modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties in bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, essential for understanding low-temperature hydrogenation activity and predicting catalytic activity in hydrocarbon reactions. Studying cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) reveals subsurface Ni's role in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation, offering insights into the bimetallic system's fundamental effects on catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates how the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties that are distinct from those of the individual components.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in hydrodesulfurization reactions. Characterization techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are employed to study surface properties, guiding the design of efficient catalysts and understanding fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity changes significantly when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, unique surface activity is observed, distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface of Pt(111), creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized through their structural modeling and DFT calculations, which are pivotal for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases, which evolve into a 2x2 substitutional alloy at higher temperatures. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer presence at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface region after annealing to 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is critical for understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is understudied, despite the growth in research on metals deposited on metallic substrates for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Notably, the Ni on Pt(111) system has received little theoretical attention. However, Majerus et al. conducted effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, providing some theoretical insight into the system's properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process reveals structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), and determines the phase diagram. The formation of NiPt alloy is temperature-dependent, increasing as Ni films transition to 3D islands. These insights are crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic, chemical, magnetic, and catalytic properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, enhancing our knowledge of bimetallic catalysts' reactivity. Subsurface Ni's presence is key for low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), modifying the Pt d-band center and affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Characterization methods, such as AES and TPD, elucidate the surfaces' structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the surfaces' unique chemical properties, such as altered adsorption energies due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms. Advanced surface science techniques combined with DFT modeling enable a comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for the rational design of catalysts with improved activity and selectivity in catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K to form NiPt(111) or at 600 K to create PtNiPt(111), are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. Annealing the 300 K surface to 900 K and examining the 600 K structure confirm the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface. STM reveals surface morphology, while AES, LEIS, and XPS validate the monolayer presence. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a critical parameter for understanding electronic changes, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence activation barriers. This parameter's determination aids in predicting surfaces with desirable catalytic properties. Studying Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, shows that depositing these metals at room temperature forms a surface monolayer, while higher temperatures lead to surface alloys enriched in Pt. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways, including hydrogenation, decomposition, and dehydrogenation. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibits a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces. The study also explores the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES and MS for surface characterization and TPD experiments. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 1 ML of 3d metal at 300 K for the surface configuration and 600 K for the subsurface bimetallic configuration. DFT calculations of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene binding energies on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces reveal the boat configuration as thermodynamically preferred for di-σ bonded cyclohexene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative method, depositing Pt on a Ni(100) surface, aids in correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is a method for studying ultrathin metal overlayers, exemplified by the measurement of W 4f7/2 core levels from W(111) substrates. The correlation between core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Literature highlights the significance of this process, despite lacking specific details.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which demonstrate low-temperature hydrogenation activity. Understanding the surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity is crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity in chemical reactions, providing insights into the fundamental role of the PtNi system in hydrocarbon catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, employing techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, allows for controlled surface composition and structure, crucial for studying reactivity and selectivity in reactions like thiophene hydrodesulfurization. The characterization reveals the impact of metal-hydrogen bonds on catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes, and elucidates the effects of bimetallic composition on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) single crystals or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Unique surface activity is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K or on pure Ni, Co, or Pt surfaces. After annealing to 600 K, the monolayer Ni diffuses into the subsurface of Pt(111), creating PtNiPt(111) structures, which explains the differences in reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized for structural modeling and DFT calculations, crucial for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Detailed analysis reveals Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, enhancing modeling and computational studies. This process is essential for investigating catalytic activity, magnetism, and atomic scale interactions in the NiPt system, a key candidate for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm the surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface region after annealing to 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is critical for understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is a focus of recent studies. Despite the growth in metal deposition research, specific details on characterizing these surfaces are scarce. Such characterization is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers theoretical insights relevant to the Ni/Pt system, underscoring the potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, reveals pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2) phases, critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Understanding these surfaces enhances knowledge of electronic, chemical, and magnetic properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. Extensive studies, including AES and TPD, have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene, elucidating bimetallic catalyst reactivity at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving experimental techniques and DFT modeling, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms. This interaction shifts the d-band center of surface Pt atoms, affecting adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. The combination of DFT and experimental methods facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface or PtNiPt(111) subsurface MBS structures, respectively. Characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the structures, with Ni atoms on the surface at 300 K and in the subsurface at 600 K. Annealing to 900 K and DFT modeling further support the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface. This comprehensive characterization is vital for structural modeling, understanding electronic and chemical properties, and advancing surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties that surpass monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer film on a single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a critical parameter, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influences activation barriers. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show Pt enrichment in the first atomic layer at elevated temperatures, impacting interdiffusion. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, while subsurface Ni moves it away, affecting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibits a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process correlates surface structure changes with electronic states and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to study growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the surfaces. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni(100) to understand fundamental properties and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the electronic properties of bimetallic interfaces. The correlation between core-level binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, highlighting the importance of this characterization process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research, despite the literature's lack of specific details on this characterization method.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, as seen in cyclohexene reaction pathways, demonstrating its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. This understanding is essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, offering insights into the PtNi system's fundamental effects on hydrocarbon catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, particularly in hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, provide insights into metal-hydrogen bonds' role in catalytic activity, guiding efficient catalyst design and precise surface composition control, essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni atoms weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by modifying surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed post-annealing at 600 K, unlike at 300 K or on Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces. At 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface region of Pt(111), creating PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, critical for modeling and providing insights into structural and electronic properties, essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. The presence of a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed post-deposition, and annealing leads to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of specific literature, the study of metals on metallic substrates has grown, with applications in catalysis, among others. Majerus et al.'s work on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates provides relevant insights into the Ni on Pt(111) system, highlighting its theoretical significance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process reveals structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. The formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages is also investigated, with insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Extensive studies, including AES and TPD, have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a unique self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene, highlighting the atomic-level reactivity of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the surfaces' unique catalytic behavior. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing the adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface or PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the presence of surface Ni monolayers and subsurface Ni diffusion. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure with Ni atoms beneath the surface Pt. This detailed characterization is essential for structural modeling, understanding electronic and chemical properties, and advancing surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, the strain effect modifies surface electronic properties, while heterometallic bond formation, known as the ligand effect, further alters these properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a critical parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence activation barriers. Cyclohexene serves as a probe molecule for comparing chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces due to its competitive reaction pathways. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, forms surface monolayers at room temperature and surface alloys at elevated temperatures, enriched in Pt due to its lower surface energy. DFT calculations and experimental results establish a correlation between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces, enabling predictions of surfaces with desirable catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second metal. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights into advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is a method for studying ultrathin metal overlayers, which can be applied to Ni/Pt systems. The interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111), providing insights into the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces. This process is critical for understanding the electronic properties of Ni/Pt interfaces, enhancing our knowledge in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. While specific details are scarce, this process is essential for comprehensive insights into bimetallic surface properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates how bimetallic surface properties differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties, guiding the design of efficient catalysts. The surfaces, with controlled compositions, are studied for reactivity and selectivity, particularly in hydrodesulfurization reactions, revealing the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity. Precise control of surface composition and structure is essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, and for understanding fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized via physical vapor deposition of Ni on Pt(111) single crystals or polycrystalline Pt at various temperatures, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, which reveal that subsurface Ni atoms can weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by modifying surface Pt atoms' electronic structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Unique surface activity is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K or on pure Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces. This is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the electronic and chemical properties essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a substitutional alloy is created, impacting the surface's composition. This detailed characterization is critical for modeling studies, offering insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, crucial for catalysis and other surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirming a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface region after annealing to 600-640 K, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of specific details on characterization methods, the study of metals on metallic substrates has grown, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. Ni on Pt(111) is a novel system, but Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates provides relevant insights, highlighting the system's potential applications in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, reveals structural phases: pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram determined by LEED and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. The starting temperature for alloy formation increases significantly as Ni thin films transition to 3D islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces. While specific methods for Ni/Pt characterization aren't detailed, studies on Co/Pt(111) using AES and TPD suggest similar techniques could be applicable, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in catalysis. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data for DFT modeling, elucidating the d-band center shift and reduced adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins. This interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, understanding electronic and chemical properties, and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for understanding their unique properties that often exceed those of monometallic catalysts. Fundamental studies using DFT modeling and surface science experiments reveal how bimetallic formation modifies surface chemistry, affecting electronic properties due to strain and ligand effects. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter, correlating with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence activation barriers. Cyclohexene serves as a probe molecule for comparing chemical properties, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface-modified Pt(111) surfaces. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities, enhancing our ability to predict bimetallic surfaces' catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to study growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights into advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Despite a lack of detailed literature, the process's significance is acknowledged for comprehensive insights.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction, revealing its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. This fundamental understanding of the PtNi system is crucial for catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enhances our understanding of the electronic and chemical properties crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic surface properties differ from pure metals, impacting catalytic and chemisorptive characteristics. However, the literature lacks details on the specific characterization methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for precise surface composition and structure control, essential for studying catalytic activity and selectivity. This process guides the design of efficient catalysts and elucidates the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity, supporting fundamental reaction mechanism understanding.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, deepens our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    