Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Unique surface activity is observed post-annealing to 600 K, differing from 300 K synthesis, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. The 600 K surfaces exhibit activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). The difference is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized for structural modeling and DFT calculations, crucial for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming ordered alloys at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, enhancing understanding of Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, vital for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It confirms a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals on metallic substrates has seen significant growth, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, have not been extensively studied theoretically. Majerus et al. performed effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates, which is relevant to understanding Ni/Pt surfaces. This research is crucial for structural modeling and elucidating electronic and chemical properties, impacting advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES, revealing pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2) phases. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. The phase diagram, determined by LEED, and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are key. Notably, the starting temperature for alloy formation increases as Ni films transition to 3D islands, offering insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. Studies using AES and TPD have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene, highlighting the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, validates the unique catalytic behavior of these surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing the adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni. This combination of DFT and experimental methods is a powerful tool for designing bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, such as low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces that surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, reveal surface alloys enriched in Pt due to lower surface energy. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibits a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The binding energies and hydrogenation activities among 3d/Pt(111) surfaces form a volcano-type relationship, crucial for understanding bimetallic surfaces' chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, which aids in correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's influence on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It also aids in determining surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity in various chemical reactions, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process reveals how bimetallic surface properties, crucial for catalysis and chemisorption, differ from those of pure metals, offering insights essential for advanced surface science research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables the creation of surfaces with controlled compositions, studied using techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. These studies provide insights into catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts and understanding reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. Heating to 600 K reveals activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, crucial for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties essential for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer presence and its diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, correlating bimetallic structures with their properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals deposited on metallic substrates, including the deposition and heteroepitaxial growth of A on B, has seen significant growth, with potential applications in various fields. Ni on Pt(111) hasn't been extensively studied theoretically, but Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers relevant insights. This research is crucial for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic, chemical, and magnetic properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages and its temperature sensitivity as films transition to 3D islands are key findings, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Extensive studies, including AES and TPD on Co/Pt(111), reveal novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms, crucial for atomic-level understanding of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the surfaces' unique chemical properties, such as altered d-band centers and reduced adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. The combination of DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface or PtNiPt(111) subsurface MBS structures, respectively. Characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirmed the presence of surface Ni monolayers and subsurface Ni diffusion. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggested the PtNiPt(111) structure. This comprehensive characterization is vital for structural modeling, understanding electronic and chemical properties, and advancing surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving density functional theory (DFT) modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces that often surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding changes in electronic properties, correlating with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu reveal that surface alloys enriched in Pt exhibit novel catalytic properties. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level compared to Ni(111), impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways, including hydrogenation, decomposition, and dehydrogenation. The study extends findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces, showing that subsurface Pt-3d-Pt(111) structures exhibit unique hydrogenation pathways, except for Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces prevents hydrogenation due to strong binding. Combined experimental and DFT results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces, crucial for predicting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, which aids in correlating surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity. XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD techniques are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is conducted using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy with synchrotron radiation. This process is crucial for understanding the electronic properties and heats of adsorption, which are vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The core-level binding energy shifts of interfacial W 4f7/2 correlate well with the heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111), highlighting the importance of this technique in comprehensively understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. Despite its significance, details on the characterization method are scarce in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, using techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, allows for controlled composition and structure, essential for studying catalytic activity and selectivity. It provides insights into metal-hydrogen bonds and guides the design of efficient catalysts, particularly for the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene, a key reaction in catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates at various temperatures, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling, critical for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Unique surface activity is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K or on Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, noted for high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, allows studying atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming ordered alloys at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. Higher temperatures result in a 2x2 substitutional alloy, crucial for modeling and providing insights into structural and electronic properties, essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition at 300 K. Annealing to 600-640 K indicates Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, correlating bimetallic structures with electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals like Ni deposited on Pt substrates has grown, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. Ni on Pt(111) is of particular interest for catalysis, tribology, and corrosion applications, despite limited theoretical literature. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation on Pt/Ni combinations provides some insight, highlighting the need for further research on these bimetallic surfaces for advanced surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic, chemical, and magnetic properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with NiPt alloy formation influenced by Ni coverage and three-dimensional island formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) are employed for characterization, providing insights into the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties essential for advanced catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure metals. Combining DFT with surface science experiments like AES, TPD, and HREELS provides insights into the bimetallic surfaces' unique catalytic behavior, facilitating the design of catalysts with improved activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K to form NiPt(111) or at 600 K for PtNiPt(111), are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, STM, and DFT modeling. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer, while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface. AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirm the structures, with STM revealing surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure after annealing. This comprehensive characterization is vital for structural modeling, understanding electronic and chemical properties, and advancing surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers for reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Cyclohexene, a probe molecule, highlights the competitive nature of reaction pathways on bimetallic surfaces. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, forms surface monolayers at room temperature and surface alloys at elevated temperatures, enriched in Pt. DFT calculations of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene binding energies on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, using VASP, show the boat configuration as thermodynamically preferred for di-σ bonded cyclohexene. The study establishes a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among 3d/Pt(111) surfaces, extending previous findings on Ni-modified Pt(111) to other 3d metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in the fundamental understanding of PtNi surfaces. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with reactivity upon adding a second constituent, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Studying cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation, offering insights into the bimetallic system's fundamental effects on hydrocarbon catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties diverge from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. Despite its significance, details on the characterization methods are scarce in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Key techniques include Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, which enable the study of surface reactivity and selectivity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts. This process allows for precise control of surface composition and structure, critical for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, involves surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity changes significantly when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, unique activity is observed, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process enables investigation of structural parameters' influence on catalytic activity and magnetism. NiPt systems, noted for high catalytic selectivity and magnetic-spatial order interplay, allow atomic scale interaction studies and metastable alloy phase formation. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. Higher temperatures yield a 2x2 substitutional alloy, crucial for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, essential for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals on metallic substrates, including Ni on Pt(111), has seen growth, with applications in catalysis and other fields. Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, are crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Majerus et al.'s calculations on Pt/Ni combinations provide relevant insights into the system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). NiPt alloy formation is temperature-dependent, increasing as Ni films transition to 3D islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. Extensive studies on Ni/Pt(111) have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene, highlighting the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves advanced surface science techniques and DFT calculations. This process is pivotal for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, essential for catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins compared to pure metals. Combining experimental data with DFT modeling facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirmed these structures. AES, LEIS, and XPS verified the surface and subsurface Ni layers, while STM detailed surface morphology. This characterization is essential for modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties that enhance catalytic activities and selectivities beyond monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch during synthesis modifies surface electronic properties due to strain, while heterometallic bond formation, known as the ligand effect, further alters these properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' electronic properties, correlating with adsorbate binding and activation barriers. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties across bimetallic surfaces, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures. The study's extension to Fe and Cu modification on Pt(111) surfaces, through physical vapor deposition, highlights the role of surface composition and temperature in catalytic activity. DFT calculations and experimental results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities, crucial for predicting bimetallic surfaces' catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate to study fundamental properties and reactivity. This process enables correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for understanding their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for comprehensive modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in the detailed analysis of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. This understanding is crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, offering insights into the PtNi system's fundamental effects on catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their unique electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals how bimetallic properties differ significantly from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, are standard for surface property analysis. These methods provide insights into metal-hydrogen bond roles in catalytic activity, guiding efficient catalyst design for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES, which are essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Surface science techniques and DFT modeling reveal that unique surface activity emerges only after annealing to 600 K. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but heating to 600 K produces activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at step edges and embedding randomly on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, enhancing our understanding of structural and electronic properties, essential for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111), is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, as it reveals the surface structure's impact on electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer presence and its diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, correlating bimetallic structures with properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. These systems, including Ni on Pt(111), have seen growing interest for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite a lack of theoretical study on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al. performed relevant calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, highlighting the system's potential significance in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with LEED determining the phase diagram. Alloy formation is temperature-dependent, increasing as Ni films transition to 3D islands, affecting magnetic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties, crucial for atomic-level understanding of bimetallic catalyst reactivity. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Extensive studies, including AES and TPD on Co/Pt(111), highlight the importance of these methods in elucidating bimetallic surface properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process is vital for structural modeling, understanding electronic properties, and predicting catalytic behavior. DFT modeling, validated by experimental data, reveals the d-band center shift in surface Pt atoms due to subsurface Ni interaction, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energies. This comprehensive approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, such as low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). These techniques confirm the structures, with DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggesting the PtNiPt(111) formation. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces, which often surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting catalytic performance. The surface d-band center's position, a critical parameter, correlates with adsorbate binding and reaction barriers. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties across bimetallic surfaces. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu forms surface monolayers at room temperature and surface alloys at higher temperatures, with Pt enrichment due to lower surface energy. DFT calculations reveal that surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, enhancing catalytic properties. The study extends these findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces, observing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures. However, the Pt-Cu-Pt(111) surface exhibits different behavior. The binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces were calculated using DFT, with cyclohexene's boat configuration found to be thermodynamically preferred. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at different temperatures, and AES quantified the deposition and thermal behavior. Theoretical calculations used VASP, with super cells allowing for relaxation of the top two layers. Hydrogen and cyclohexene binding was studied on co-adsorbed surfaces, with hydrogen atoms bonded in the nearest threefold hollow sites to the cyclohexene molecule.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative method, depositing Pt on Ni(100), aids in correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, essential for comprehensive understanding.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation aids in studying ultrathin metal overlayers, exemplified by the correlation between core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This process is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic interfaces, highlighting its importance in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties pertinent to advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process plays a critical role in our comprehensive understanding of these surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, revealing its role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, thus advancing surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enhances our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, enables controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying catalytic activity and selectivity. The surfaces' precise control aids in understanding bimetallic composition effects and fundamental reaction mechanisms, guiding efficient catalyst design for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized via vapor deposition of Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt at 300K and 600K, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems emerges at 600 K, differing from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces at 300 K. Experimental and theoretical studies reveal that heating to 600 K causes Ni diffusion into the subsurface of Pt(111), creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, due to its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, enables the study of atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy configurations. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, critical for modeling and computational studies in catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer was confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K suggested Ni diffusion into the subsurface, potentially forming a PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. These systems, including multilayers with alternating A and B layers, have potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates, Ni on Pt(111) has not been widely explored theoretically. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations provides some relevance to this system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, reveals pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2) phases. Alloy formation temperature increases with Ni thin films transitioning to 3D islands, providing insights into magnetic and catalytic properties, crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical calculations, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior of the Ni/Pt system. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This combination of DFT and experimental techniques is a powerful tool for designing bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K, form a NiPt(111) surface structure, which transforms into a PtNiPt(111) subsurface structure upon heating to 600 K. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms these structures. Annealing the 300 K surface to 900 K and examining the 600 K subsurface structure via XPS provide insights. STM further elucidates surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements support the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another, the effects on surface chemistry can be studied, with lattice mismatch leading to changes in surface electronic properties due to strain. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further modifies these properties. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for understanding electronic changes, correlating with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. This parameter's determination enables predictions of bimetallic surfaces' catalytic properties. The study of Fe-, Co-, Ni-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces shows how subsurface modifications can lead to novel hydrogenation pathways, with cyclohexene serving as an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties. The hydrogenation pathway's absence on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong adsorbate binding highlights the complexity of bimetallic surface chemistry. The combined experimental and theoretical approach establishes a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities, crucial for understanding and designing bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) surface, facilitating the correlation of surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni, critical for low-temperature hydrogenation activity as seen in cyclohexene reaction pathways. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, vital for predicting and controlling catalytic activity in various reactions, and provides fundamental insights into the PtNi system's role in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates how bimetallic properties diverge from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive characteristics crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in hydrodesulfurization reactions. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, are essential for studying surface properties, guiding catalyst design, and understanding reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties relevant to advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems emerges only after annealing to 600 K, unlike the Ni-like reactivity at 300 K. The 600 K surfaces exhibit activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111), attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized to understand their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, though not fully described in literature, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. Higher temperatures lead to a 2x2 substitutional alloy, enhancing understanding of structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This characterization is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of specific details on characterization methods in the literature, the study of metals on metallic substrates has seen significant growth, with potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Notably, Majerus et al. conducted effective medium calculations for Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, offering insights relevant to the Ni/Pt system. This research is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is achieved using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with NiPt alloy formation studied at various Ni coverages. The starting temperature for alloy formation increases as Ni films transition to 3D islands, offering insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Characterization methods, including AES and TPD, elucidate the structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms. This interaction shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface or PtNiPt(111) subsurface MBS structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, STM, and DFT modeling confirms the structural outcomes. Annealing the 300 K surface to 900 K and examining the 600 K subsurface structure via XPS support the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface. STM reveals surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure with Ni beneath the surface Pt. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces can outperform monometallic catalysts due to unique properties. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry, affecting electronic properties through strain and ligand effects. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind adsorbates and influence activation barriers. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on certain bimetallic surfaces. The study extends findings on Ni-modified Pt(111) to Fe, Co, and Cu modifications, highlighting the importance of surface composition and structure. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities, advancing our understanding of bimetallic surfaces' catalytic potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process allows correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, highlighting the critical role of characterization in modeling and DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This detailed analysis is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research, enabling a comprehensive grasp of bimetallic surface properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as demonstrated by the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, revealing subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also aids in predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, offering insights into the fundamental effects of the PtNi system in hydrocarbon catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' catalytic and chemisorptive properties differ significantly from those of pure metals, offering insights crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in hydrodesulfurization reactions. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, are standard for surface property analysis. These methods provide insights into metal-hydrogen bond roles in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts and allowing precise control of surface composition and structure, essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aids in understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    