Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems emerges at 600 K, differing from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces at lower temperatures. DFT studies reveal that heating to 600 K causes Ni diffusion into the subsurface of Pt(111), forming PtNiPt(111) structures, explaining the observed reactivity changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for studying catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases, which evolve into a 2x2 substitutional alloy at higher temperatures. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirming a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface region after annealing to 600-640 K, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals deposited on metallic substrates, including the Ni/Pt bimetallic system, has seen significant growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite this, detailed characterization of Ni/Pt surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is scarce in the literature. Theoretical calculations by Majerus et al. on Pt/Ni combinations, while not directly on the Ni/Pt system, offer some relevance. This highlights the need for comprehensive characterization to support structural modeling and understanding of electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, employs LEED and AES. This process, observing structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), and investigating NiPt alloy formation, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities enhance advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene. Characterization methods, like AES and TPD, elucidate the structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, elucidates the electronic and chemical properties crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms leads to a d-band center shift, affecting adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. This comprehensive understanding facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for various chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). These structures are confirmed by experimental techniques, with STM revealing surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure, with Ni atoms beneath the surface Pt. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. DFT modeling and surface science experiments are used to study the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces. Bimetallic surfaces often exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. A monolayer of one metal on a single-crystal substrate of another metal allows for the investigation of surface chemistry modifications due to bimetallic formation. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bonds alter surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level, which correlates with binding abilities and activation barriers for reactions. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals forms 3d-Pt-Pt(111) and Pt-3d-Pt(111) surfaces, with the latter enriched in Pt due to enthalpic driving forces. The study extends findings on Ni-modified Pt(111) to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified surfaces, revealing unique hydrogenation pathways. The binding energies and hydrogenation activities among 3d/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces exhibit a volcano-type relationship. Surfaces were prepared by physical vapor deposition and characterized using AES and MS in a UHV chamber. DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, with cyclohexene's boat configuration found to be thermodynamically preferred.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni, aiding in the study of PtNi surfaces. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with reactivity upon adding a second constituent, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation, as demonstrated on W(111) with ultrathin metal overlayers, reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption. This method is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic interfaces, akin to Ni/Pt surfaces, highlighting its critical role in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research, despite the literature's lack of specific details on this process.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their unique electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process reveals how bimetallic properties differ from pure metals, impacting catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. However, specific characterization methods are not detailed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This characterization is crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties. It enables precise control of surface composition and structure, vital for studying catalytic activity and selectivity, and guides the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, not at 300 K, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, form ordered and substitutional alloys, crucial for understanding catalytic activity and magnetism. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, creating a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, enhancing the surface's catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. This detailed characterization is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This characterization confirms the surface Ni monolayer and, after annealing, the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. These findings are essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals on metallic substrates, including the Ni/Pt system, has seen significant growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite this, detailed characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is scarce in the literature. Majerus et al.'s work on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates provides some relevance to understanding these surfaces, crucial for structural modeling and elucidating electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES, revealing pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2) phases. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties, magnetic behavior, and catalytic activities. The phase diagram, determined by LEED, and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are key to advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway. AES and TPD experiments are utilized for characterization, crucial for understanding bimetallic surfaces' novel reactivity and properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, validates the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This understanding, facilitated by DFT and experimental data, enables the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface or PtNiPt(111) subsurface MBS structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the presence of Ni monolayers and subsurface diffusion. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K, respectively, further validates these structures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure with Ni atoms beneath the surface Pt. This detailed characterization is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting catalytic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show that surface alloys, enriched in Pt, exhibit unique hydrogenation pathways, influenced by the d-band center's shift. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties, revealing variations in reaction pathways on different bimetallic surfaces. The combined experimental and theoretical approach establishes a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities, crucial for understanding and designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in the fundamental understanding of PtNi surfaces. XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD techniques are employed to study growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes and electronic states with reactivity upon adding a second constituent, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing bimetallic surfaces, such as Ni/Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is employed to study ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111), which can be analogized to Ni/Pt surfaces. The process identifies interfacial binding energies and correlates them with heats of adsorption, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties. This method is essential for understanding the behavior of bimetallic interfaces, including Ni/Pt, in catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process is pivotal for comprehending the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as evidenced by the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveal subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also aids in determining surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi bimetallic system fundamentally, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation, is enhanced through this characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit distinct catalytic and chemisorptive properties compared to pure metals, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates is characterized using techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This process is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. It enables controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying reactivity and selectivity, guiding catalyst design, and elucidating fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, employs surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed post-annealing at 600 K. Deposition at 300 K yields reactivity akin to Ni surfaces, while heating to 600 K reveals distinct surface activity. Studies show this difference is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region of Pt(111), creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the study of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for investigations due to its catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. At various temperatures, Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. Higher temperatures result in a 2x2 substitutional alloy, crucial for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the electronic and chemical properties. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Studies on metals deposited on metallic substrates have grown, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. Ni on Pt(111) has seen less theoretical attention, but Majerus et al. performed effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates, which are relevant to understanding these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process reveals structural phases: pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), and investigates NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages. The phase diagram, determined by LEED, and the temperature increase for alloy formation in 3D islands are critical for understanding magnetic properties and catalytic activities, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for atomic-level comprehension of bimetallic catalysts' reactivity. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, altering hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. While specific details of Ni/Pt characterization are not provided, studies on Co/Pt(111) using AES and TPD highlight the importance of understanding bimetallic surfaces' structural and electronic properties for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in catalysis research. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data essential for accurate DFT modeling, which elucidates the surfaces' electronic properties, such as the d-band center. This interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms leads to novel catalytic behavior, making bimetallic surfaces like Ni/Pt promising for the rational design of catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms these structures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Cyclohexene serves as a probe molecule for comparing chemical properties, with low-temperature hydrogenation pathways varying among bimetallic surfaces. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals forms surface alloys enriched in Pt, influenced by strain and enthalpic driving forces. DFT calculations of binding energies for atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, using VASP code, reveal the thermodynamically preferred boat configuration for di-σ bonded cyclohexene. The study also examines the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), with surfaces prepared by physical vapor deposition at different temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni(100) to study fundamental properties and reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth, electronic structure, and reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studies using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy on ultrathin metal overlayers, such as on W(111), demonstrate the importance of this technique. The correlation between core-level binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) highlights the method's utility in understanding electronic properties. This process is critical for elucidating the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, akin to Ni/Pt, in the context of catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's effects on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveal subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, allows for controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying reactivity and selectivity in advanced surface science and catalysis research. It provides insights into metal-hydrogen bonds' role in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aids in comprehending electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions show activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enables the investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At elevated temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, corresponding to a Ni20Pt80 surface composition. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition and Ni diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is critical for understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is a focus of recent research. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, specific details on characterizing Ni/Pt surfaces are scarce. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations highlights the theoretical relevance to understanding these surfaces, crucial for structural modeling and comprehensive insights into their electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing initial growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. Alloy formation varies with Ni coverage, and the starting temperature increases significantly as Ni films transition to three-dimensional islands, impacting magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst reactivity at an atomic level. Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) are utilized for characterization, highlighting the importance of subsurface composition for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves advanced surface science techniques and DFT calculations. This process is pivotal for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties essential for catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure metals. This unique behavior, validated by comparing DFT models with experimental data, facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for various reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) and PtNiPt(111) structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the surface and subsurface Ni monolayers. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K, respectively, was consistent with Ni diffusion into the subsurface, as evidenced by DFT modeling and chemical property measurements. This characterization is pivotal for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, combining DFT modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces, which often surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting catalytic behavior. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level correlates with binding of adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu reveal that subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways, with similar findings for Pt-Fe-Pt(111) but not Pt-Cu-Pt(111). Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties due to its competitive reaction pathways. DFT calculations and experiments establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second metal. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to study growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, enhancing our knowledge in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also aids in determining surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions. This fundamental understanding of the PtNi system is crucial for catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic properties differ from pure metals, impacting catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. However, literature lacks details on the specific characterization methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, particularly in reactions like hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, provide insights into metal-hydrogen bonds and guide the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes. Precise control over surface composition and structure is essential for studying bimetallic effects on catalytic activity and understanding fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, employs surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This is pivotal for structural understanding and elucidating electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed post-annealing at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity mirrors Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions reveal distinct surface activity, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. The NiPt system, notable for its catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, allows investigation of atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a substitutional alloy forms, critical for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties essential for catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition and Ni diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is critical for understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, have seen growing interest, particularly in deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. Despite this, detailed characterization is scarce in the literature. These systems are significant for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers theoretical insights relevant to understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing initial growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). Alloy formation, influenced by Ni coverage and three-dimensional island formation, impacts magnetic properties and catalytic activities, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like AES and TPD are employed for characterization, revealing unique properties and reactivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the unique catalytic behavior of these surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, affecting adsorption energies. Advanced surface science techniques combined with DFT modeling enable the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms these structures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer film of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another metal studies surface chemistry modifications due to bimetallic formation. Lattice mismatch causes strain effects, altering surface electronic properties, and heterometallic bond formation, known as the ligand effect, further modifies these properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a critical parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers. Cyclohexene serves as an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties due to its competitive reaction pathways. Previous studies on Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) showed a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, which was extended to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces. The hydrogenation pathway was absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces. The study also explored the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES and MS for surface characterization and TPD experiments. Surfaces were modified by physical vapor deposition, and DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) surface, aiding in the study of PtNi bimetallic surfaces. Characterization using XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD techniques investigates growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with reactivity upon adding a second constituent, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the electronic properties by measuring core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This method elucidates the electronic and chemical properties at the interface, essential for understanding bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the role of subsurface Ni, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which induces low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions, providing fundamental insights into the PtNi bimetallic system's catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process illuminates the unique electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates is characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. It allows for controlled surface compositions, enabling studies of reactivity and selectivity, such as in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Precise control over surface composition and structure is essential for studying bimetallic effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding their electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions show activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At elevated temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy emerges, critical for modeling studies and insights into surface properties, essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations, correlating bimetallic structures with electronic and chemical properties. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic/chemical properties. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates, the Ni/Pt system has received little theoretical attention. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers some relevance to this system, highlighting the need for further research in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing initial growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic, chemical, and magnetic properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram determined by LEED reveals the formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing as Ni films become three-dimensional islands.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for atomic-level insights into bimetallic catalyst reactivity. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. Techniques like AES and TPD have been used to study Co/Pt(111) surfaces, highlighting the importance of such methods in elucidating bimetallic surface properties and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the surfaces' unique catalytic behavior due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms. This interaction shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Figures 5 and 6 illustrate the LEIS, AES, and XPS results, confirming the structures. STM further characterizes the surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements support the production of the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Using DFT modeling and surface science experiments, researchers study the unique properties of these surfaces, which often exceed those of monometallic catalysts. A monolayer of one metal on another modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' catalytic properties. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties across various bimetallic surfaces. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu forms surface alloys enriched in Pt, influencing hydrogenation pathways. DFT calculations and experiments establish correlations between binding energies and hydrogenation activities, providing insights into bimetallic surfaces' enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in the fundamental understanding of PtNi surfaces. XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD techniques are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes and electronic states with reactivity upon adding a second constituent.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This method is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, highlighting the importance of detailed characterization in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity, as seen in cyclohexene reaction pathways. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their distinct electronic and chemical properties compared to pure metals. This process reveals insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in catalysis research. Surfaces with controlled compositions are studied using techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction to assess reactivity and selectivity, crucial for designing efficient catalysts. This process allows for precise control of surface composition and structure, essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and understanding reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized via Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates at 300K with annealing at 600K, or direct deposition at 600K, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems emerges only after annealing to 600 K. Deposition at 300 K mimics Ni surface reactivity, but heating to 600 K reveals activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces. This is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research, allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, noted for high catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order, facilitates atomic scale interaction studies and metastable alloy phase formation. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases, which transform into a 2x2 substitutional alloy at higher temperatures. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and other surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is crucial for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is a focus of recent research. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, detailed characterization of Ni/Pt surfaces is scarce. Majerus et al.'s work on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates provides some insight, underscoring the system's relevance to advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, reveals the growth and alloy formation of Ni ultrathin films on Pt(111). Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram determined by LEED and the NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages highlight the increase in starting temperature for alloy formation as Ni films turn three-dimensional. This research provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties, critical for atomic-level understanding of bimetallic catalyst reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using advanced surface science techniques and DFT calculations. This process, crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic properties, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural information essential for accurate DFT modeling, which elucidates the d-band center shift in surface Pt atoms due to subsurface Ni interaction. This shift reduces adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins, enhancing catalytic behavior. The combination of experimental and theoretical methods facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirmed these structures through LEIS, AES, and XPS. STM revealed the surfaces' morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggested the PtNiPt(111) structure's formation. This characterization is vital for modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties that enhance catalytic activities and selectivities beyond monometallic catalysts. Bimetallic surfaces modify surface chemistry through lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with binding abilities and activation barriers for reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys enriched in Pt exhibit altered electronic properties. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Pt-3d-Pt(111) surfaces exhibit novel hydrogenation pathways, except for Pt-Cu-Pt(111), due to cyclohexene's strong binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces, crucial for understanding their catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative approach, depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aids in correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD techniques are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights into bimetallic surfaces' fundamental properties and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the electronic properties of these interfaces. The correlation between core-level binding energies and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) highlights the process's importance in understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as evidenced by the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveal subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. Understanding the surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity is essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions, particularly in the hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, enhancing advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the unique electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties differ significantly from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in thiophene hydrodesulfurization. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, are standard for surface property analysis. These methods provide insights into metal-hydrogen bonds' role in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts and understanding bimetallic composition effects on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    