Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Unique surface activity is observed only when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions show activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, enhancing our understanding of structural and electronic properties, essential for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111), are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, achieved by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is a focus of growing interest. Despite a lack of specific literature on characterizing these surfaces, studies on metals deposited on metallic substrates have expanded, covering deposition, heteroepitaxial growth, and multilayer fabrication. These systems are significant for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Notably, the Ni/Pt system was previously unexplored theoretically until Majerus et al. conducted effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, providing relevant insights.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. Alloy formation is influenced by Ni coverage, with higher temperatures required as Ni films become three-dimensional. This research provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst reactivity at an atomic level. Techniques like AES and TPD, used in Co/Pt(111) characterization, may be applicable.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process, crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This combination facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface presence, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, the strain effect and ligand effect modify surface electronic properties, influencing the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys enriched in Pt exhibit altered hydrogenation pathways for cyclohexene, with the boat configuration being thermodynamically preferred. The research extends findings on Ni-modified Pt(111) to other metals, demonstrating the competitive nature of cyclohexene's reaction pathways and the role of bimetallic surfaces in promoting specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni to study fundamental properties and reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with reactivity upon adding a second constituent, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the electronic properties of these interfaces. The correlation between W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts at the interface and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Despite a lack of detailed literature, this process is critical for comprehensive insights into bimetallic surface properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveal the role of subsurface Ni in low-temperature hydrogenation. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties diverge from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. However, specific details on the characterization methods are not widely documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, provides insights into the electronic and chemical properties, guiding the design of efficient catalysts. The surfaces, with controlled compositions and structures, are studied for reactivity and selectivity, particularly in hydrodesulfurization reactions, highlighting the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. Heating to 600 K reveals activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized through the investigation of Ni atom exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80) emerges. This detailed characterization is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111), is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer presence and its diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of specific literature on Ni/Pt systems, studies on metals deposited on metallic substrates have grown, highlighting their potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations provides theoretical relevance to the Ni/Pt system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram and NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are key to insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties, crucial for atomic-level insights into bimetallic catalyst reactivity. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a unique self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene, highlighting the importance of characterizing bimetallic surfaces for comprehensive understanding and comparison with other systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, elucidates the electronic and chemical properties crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins, and enhancing catalytic behavior. DFT modeling, informed by experimental data, facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for various chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form surface (NiPt(111)) or subsurface (PtNiPt(111)) structures, respectively. Characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirmed these structures, with annealing and DFT modeling supporting the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface. This process is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces that often surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence activation barriers to reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu reveal that surface and subsurface configurations exhibit distinct electronic properties, with cyclohexene serving as a probe for comparing chemical properties. DFT calculations of binding energies for atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, along with experimental results, establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities. The boat configuration of di-σ bonded cyclohexene is thermodynamically preferred. The study also explores the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), demonstrating the importance of surface composition and temperature in bimetallic surface characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni(100) to study fundamental properties and reactivity. This process correlates surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is employed to study ultrathin metal overlayers, measuring the W 4f7/2 core levels from the substrate. The correlation between core-level binding energy shifts at the interface and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Despite a lack of detailed literature, the process's significance is evident.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, as evidenced by cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, revealing subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process illuminates the unique electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The bimetallic surfaces exhibit distinct catalytic and chemisorptive properties compared to pure metals, offering valuable insights into their behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, particularly in hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Metal-hydrogen bonds play a critical role in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts. Surface composition and structure control are essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity. Characterization techniques include Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, which are standard for surface property analysis.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems emerges at 600 K, differing from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces at 300 K. At 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface of Pt(111), forming PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. Notably, Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. Higher temperatures lead to a 2x2 substitutional alloy, crucial for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition at 300 K. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, correlating bimetallic structures with their properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals deposited on metallic substrates, including the Ni/Pt system, has seen significant growth, with applications spanning magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite this, specific literature on the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is scarce. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers some insight into the system's theoretical understanding, highlighting its relevance for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with NiPt alloy formation influenced by Ni coverage and three-dimensional island formation. This research provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a unique self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene. Characterization methods, such as AES and TPD, elucidate the structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, crucial for structural modeling and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This combination of DFT and experiments facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter for electronic property changes, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys are enriched in Pt due to lower surface energy. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit low-temperature hydrogenation, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). A volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities is established among various bimetallic surfaces. The study extends to Fe and Cu's growth and thermal behavior on Pt(111), using AES and DFT calculations for binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process enables correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is a key technique, as demonstrated in studies of ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111). The correlation between W 4f7/2 core-level binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) reveals critical insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic interfaces. This process is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt surfaces, enhancing our knowledge in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic/chemical properties. This process elucidates the role of subsurface Ni in catalytic activity, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties diverge from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, allows for controlled surface composition and structure, crucial for studying catalytic activity and selectivity. The insights gained guide the design of efficient catalysts and elucidate the fundamental mechanisms of reactions on these surfaces, particularly in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized via physical vapor deposition of Ni on Pt(111) at 300K and 600K, or direct deposition at 600K, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. DFT calculations reveal subsurface Ni's role in weakening metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to these bimetallic systems is observed post-annealing at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions reveal activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy emerges, enhancing understanding of structural and electronic properties, vital for catalysis and other applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Studies of metals on metallic substrates have seen rapid growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite a lack of theoretical focus on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations highlights the relevance of these systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. The formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages and its impact on magnetic properties and catalytic activities are also investigated.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties, critical for atomic-level understanding of bimetallic catalyst reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms. This interaction shifts the d-band center of surface Pt atoms, affecting adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving density functional theory (DFT) modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces can exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, the surface chemistry is modified due to lattice mismatch and strain effects, altering electronic properties. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further changes surface properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence catalytic reactions. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu have shown that surface alloys enriched in Pt can form at elevated temperatures. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's binding and hydrogenation pathways. The study extends findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces, demonstrating that cyclohexene is an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties due to its competitive reaction pathways. The hydrogenation pathway varies among bimetallic surfaces, with Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibiting a novel low-temperature pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The binding energies and hydrogenation activities among 3d/Pt(111) surfaces form a volcano-type relationship, and the study includes the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni, aiding in the fundamental understanding of PtNi surfaces. This process correlates surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Despite limited literature on specifics, its significance underscores the need for comprehensive research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni effects on surface properties, critical for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Studying cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation, offering insights into the bimetallic system's fundamental catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals how bimetallic properties differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for characterization. These surfaces, with controlled compositions and structures, are studied for reactivity and selectivity, particularly in reactions like hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Their characterization reveals the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts and enabling precise control of surface composition and structure, which is crucial for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates at 300K and 600K, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. DFT calculations reveal subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed post-annealing at 600 K. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but heating to 600 K reveals activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface of Pt(111), forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for studying catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases, which evolve into a 2x2 substitutional alloy at higher temperatures. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling studies and provides insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, correlating bimetallic structures with electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed, and after annealing to 600-640 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is understudied. Despite this, the field of metal deposition on metallic substrates has seen significant growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. The Ni on Pt(111) system, while not extensively explored theoretically, is of interest for its potential in advanced surface science and catalysis research, as indicated by studies on similar systems by researchers like Majerus et al.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, reveals pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2) phases, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. The phase diagram, determined by LEED, and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages, enhance our understanding of electronic and chemical properties, magnetic properties, and catalytic activities in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni is critical for low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties, providing insights into bimetallic catalyst reactivity at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the unique catalytic behavior of these surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This combination of DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). DFT modeling and experimental data confirm these structures and suggest the PtNiPt(111) configuration after annealing. This characterization is vital for modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and strain effects, altering electronic properties. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further changes surface properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. This parameter's determination enables predictions of surfaces with desirable catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface and subsurface modifications shift the d-band center, affecting cyclohexene's binding and hydrogenation pathways. The combined experimental and theoretical results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables correlating surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process aids in comprehending the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in enhancing low-temperature hydrogenation activity. Characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process illuminates the distinct electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, particularly in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, are essential for precise surface control and understanding bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity. This research guides the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions show activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces. This is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region of Pt(111), forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases, which evolve into a 2x2 substitutional alloy at higher temperatures. This detailed characterization is essential for computational studies and insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' properties, critical for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This characterization is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic/chemical properties. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, Ni on Pt(111) hasn't been extensively explored theoretically. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers relevant insights.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is conducted using LEED and AES. This process, observing initial growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Notable structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation is temperature-dependent, increasing as Ni films transition to 3D islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Techniques like AES and TPD, used in Co/Pt(111) studies, elucidate the structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process is critical for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure metals. This unique behavior, validated by comparing DFT modeling with surface science experiments, facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K to form NiPt(111) or at 600 K for PtNiPt(111), are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni diffusion into the subsurface, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. STM reveals surface morphology at both temperatures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure, with Ni atoms beneath surface Pt. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, aiding in structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch modifies surface electronic properties due to strain, while heterometallic bonds alter the surface through the ligand effect. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter for electronic properties, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and affects activation barriers. Cyclohexene, with its competitive reaction pathways, serves as an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals forms surface alloys enriched in Pt, influencing interdiffusion. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting catalytic properties. The study extends findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified surfaces, observing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures. The hydrogenation pathway's absence on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces is due to strong adsorbate binding. Combined experimental and DFT results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces, enhancing our understanding of catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in understanding properties and reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface changes with reactivity upon adding a second constituent, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, highlighting their importance in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveal subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process illuminates the unique electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The bimetallic surfaces exhibit distinct catalytic and chemisorptive properties compared to pure metals, underscoring the need for comprehensive characterization. However, specific details on the characterization methods are not widely documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, involving Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, allows for controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying catalytic activity and selectivity. The precise control of surface composition and structure is essential for understanding bimetallic effects on catalysis and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt at 300K with annealing at 600K, or direct deposition at 600K, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity changes significantly when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, unique surface activity is observed, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region of Pt(111), creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At elevated temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, critical for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm the surface Ni monolayer and Ni diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, correlating bimetallic structures with their properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is a focus of recent research. Despite attention on metal deposition and heteroepitaxial growth, detailed characterization of the Ni/Pt system is scarce. However, theoretical calculations by Majerus et al. on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates provide insights relevant to this system. Understanding these surfaces is critical for structural modeling and elucidating electronic and chemical properties, with implications for catalysis, magnetism, optics, and more.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram reveals the formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing as Ni thin films transition to three-dimensional islands. This insight is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Characterization using techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms, providing insights into bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, using techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS, provides atomic structure details essential for accurate DFT modeling. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms leads to a shift in the d-band center, affecting adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. This combination of experimental data and DFT calculations facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. Deposition at 300 K forms the NiPt(111) surface structure, while heating to 600 K or depositing at this temperature results in Ni diffusing into the subsurface, creating the PtNiPt(111) structure. These techniques confirm the presence of a surface Ni monolayer and subsurface Ni atoms, as shown by AES, LEIS, and STM. XPS further elucidates the chemical properties. DFT modeling supports the understanding of the electronic properties and chemical behavior, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Bimetallic surfaces modify surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with binding abilities and activation barriers for reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys are Pt-enriched, impacting interdiffusion. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, influencing cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibits a novel hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway's absence on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces is due to strong cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities. The study's extension to Fe and Cu on Pt(111) involves AES quantification and thermal behavior analysis. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at different temperatures, with DFT calculations determining binding energies. Theoretical results, using VASP, studied binding energies with super cells, revealing the boat configuration's thermodynamic preference for di-σ bonded cyclohexene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni to study fundamental properties and reactivity. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, ensuring comprehensive understanding.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is employed to study ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111), including Ni and Pt. This method measures the W 4f7/2 core levels, revealing shifts in binding energy that correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic interfaces, making the characterization process critical for comprehensive modeling and DFT calculations in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process is fundamental for advanced surface science and catalysis research, despite the literature's lack of detailed information on specific characterization methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveal its role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enhances our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors unique to bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, enables the creation of surfaces with controlled compositions and structures. Studying these surfaces provides insights into catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes. The precise control of surface composition and structure is essential for understanding bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, as well as fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aids in comprehending the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    