Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is achieved through surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed post-annealing at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions reveal distinct surface activity. Studies show this difference is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface of Pt(111), forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized through the investigation of Ni atom exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80) develops. This detailed characterization is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties essential for catalysis and surface science applications, as it reveals the influence of structural parameters on catalytic activity and magnetism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer presence post-deposition at 300 K. Annealing to 600-640 K facilitates Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is critical for understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is understudied. Despite this, the field of metals on metallic substrates has seen growth, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations provides theoretical relevance to the Ni/Pt system, underscoring its potential importance in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing initial growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Notable phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation varies with Ni coverage, and the starting temperature for alloying increases as Ni films transition to three-dimensional islands, impacting magnetic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and altering reaction pathways for ethylene and cyclohexene. Studies reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway, highlighting the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts. Characterization methods, including AES and TPD, elucidate the structural and electronic properties, crucial for understanding bimetallic surfaces' catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins compared to pure metals. Combining DFT with experimental data, like AES, TPD, and HREELS, enables accurate modeling and deeper insights into catalytic properties, facilitating the design of catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms these structures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, the strain effect and ligand effect modify surface electronic properties, influencing the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for predicting catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys enriched in Pt exhibit unique hydrogenation pathways for cyclohexene, with variations observed among different bimetallic surfaces. DFT calculations and experiments establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities, providing insights into the chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni(100) to study fundamental properties and reactivity. This process allows correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate the growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films, providing insights essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, highlighting the importance of detailed characterization in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research. While specific details are scarce, the process's importance for comprehensive analysis is evident.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates subsurface Ni's role in catalytic hydrogenation, as seen in cyclohexene reaction pathways, which exhibit enhanced low-temperature activity. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system's fundamental effects on catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our grasp of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. Despite its significance, details on the characterization method are scarce in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in thiophene hydrodesulfurization. Characterization methods, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, are essential for precise surface control and understanding bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity. This knowledge guides the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties vital for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but after annealing to 600 K, unique surface activity emerges, distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures, as revealed by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, form ordered and substitutional alloys, crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, creating a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, enhancing catalytic activity and magnetism, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Despite a lack of theoretical literature on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations highlights the system's relevance. These bimetallic surfaces have potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, emphasizing the importance of their study.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). LEED determines the phase diagram, and AES investigates NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages, revealing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms at an atomic level, crucial for bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, combining experimental techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS with DFT modeling, elucidates the electronic and chemical properties essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, influencing adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. This comprehensive approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for various chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces that surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers for reactions. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties across bimetallic surfaces, revealing novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways on Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures. Surface alloys, enriched in Pt due to lower surface energy, are designated Pt-3d-Pt(111). DFT calculations of binding energies for atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces establish a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities. The study also explores the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), with surfaces prepared by physical vapor deposition at different temperatures. Theoretical results, calculated using VASP, involve super cells with four atomic layers, allowing relaxation of the top two layers. Calculations for hydrogen and cyclohexene binding consider spin-polarization and the di-σ configuration's thermodynamic preference.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows correlating surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate the growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the surfaces, providing insights into advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studies using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy on ultrathin metal overlayers, like those on W(111), reveal that core-level binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption, offering insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic interfaces. This process is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt surfaces, contributing to structural modeling and DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, crucial for understanding hydrogenation activity and predicting catalytic activity in hydrocarbon reactions. It also aids in determining surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, enabling better control of catalytic selectivity. The study of cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces highlights subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation, offering insights into the fundamental catalytic behavior of the PtNi system.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enhances our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors unique to these systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying reactivity and selectivity, such as in hydrodesulfurization reactions. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, provide insights into metal-hydrogen bonds and guide the design of efficient catalysts. Precise control of surface composition and structure is essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, and for understanding fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties vital for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This is vital for structural modeling and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. Heating to 600 K reveals activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, undergo structural changes that are critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. At terrace and step sites, Ni exchanges with Pt, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. Higher temperatures result in a 2x2 substitutional alloy, enhancing understanding of structural and electronic properties. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling, computational studies, and insights into catalytic activity, making Ni/Pt surfaces valuable for surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111), using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic/chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis. Initial deposition at 300 K confirmed a surface Ni monolayer, while annealing to higher temperatures suggested Ni diffusion into the subsurface, potentially forming a PtNiPt structure, as supported by DFT calculations and chemical property measurements.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals on metallic substrates, including Ni on Pt(111), has grown, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. This is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties, impacting catalysis and surface science. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates provides theoretical insights relevant to the Ni/Pt system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation was studied at various Ni coverages, revealing that the starting temperature for alloying significantly increases as Ni films transition to three-dimensional islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. AES and TPD experiments, used for Co/Pt(111) characterization, likely apply to Ni/Pt, revealing novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms leads to a shift in the d-band center, reducing the adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) or PtNiPt(111) structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the surface and subsurface Ni distribution. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K alters the Ni position, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. STM reveals surface morphology changes. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure's formation. This characterization is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch during synthesis modifies surface electronic properties due to strain effects, and heterometallic bond formation, known as the ligand effect, further alters these properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a critical parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu demonstrate the effects on binding of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, as well as low-temperature hydrogenation. Surface alloys, enriched in Pt due to lower surface energy, are observed at elevated temperatures. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting catalytic properties. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures. The study extends to Fe- and Cu-modified surfaces, with DFT calculations of binding energies and thermal behavior analysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process enables correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights into advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is a key technique, as demonstrated in studies of ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111). The correlation between core-level binding energies and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) highlights the importance of this process for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates subsurface Ni's effects on surface properties, enhancing understanding of low-temperature hydrogenation activity through cyclohexene reaction pathways. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity in various chemical reactions, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, particularly in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Surfaces are characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, standard techniques that provide insights into metal-hydrogen bonds and guide catalyst design for industrial processes. The precise control of surface composition and structure is crucial for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, and for understanding reaction mechanisms on these surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems emerges at 600 K, differing from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. Heating to 600 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, creating PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for studies due to its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a substitutional alloy is created, crucial for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is critical for understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. These systems, including multilayers with alternating A and B layers, have potential applications in various fields. Despite a lack of theoretical study on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al. performed effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, highlighting the relevance of such studies to the Ni/Pt system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, reveals pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2) phases, crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. The phase diagram, determined by LEED, and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are key insights.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties, crucial for atomic-level insights into bimetallic catalyst reactivity. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) highlight low-temperature H2 desorption and a unique cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway. Characterization methods, like AES and TPD used for Co/Pt(111), elucidate structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data essential for accurate DFT modeling, which elucidates the surfaces' electronic properties, such as the d-band center. This understanding is critical for predicting adsorption energies of molecules like hydrogen and ethylene, revealing the unique catalytic behavior of Ni/Pt surfaces. The synergy between experimental data and theoretical calculations facilitates the rational design of advanced catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including the low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) or PtNiPt(111) structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the surface structures. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K results in distinct surface morphologies, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. STM further elucidates the surfaces' morphology at these temperatures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, supporting the PtNiPt(111) structure formation. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, enhancing our understanding of bimetallic surfaces' electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces can outperform monometallic catalysts due to unique properties. A monolayer of one metal on another modifies surface chemistry, affecting electronic properties through strain and ligand effects. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with binding abilities and activation barriers for reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show that surface alloys, enriched in Pt, exhibit altered electronic properties. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) surfaces exhibit a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces. The study also explores the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES and MS for surface characterization and TPD experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are crucial for investigating the growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of these surfaces, providing insights into their fundamental properties and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is employed to study ultrathin metal overlayers. The correlation between the core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) is essential for understanding the electronic properties of these bimetallic systems, highlighting their importance in elucidating interface properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as evidenced by the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveal subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It's essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions, offering insights into the fundamental catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the unique electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, allows for the study of surfaces' reactivity and selectivity, particularly in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. It provides insights into metal-hydrogen bonds' role in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts and enabling precise control of surface composition and structure, crucial for understanding bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt at 300K with annealing at 600K, or direct deposition at 600K, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis research. Unique surface activity is observed only when annealed to 600 K, producing PtNiPt(111) structures, unlike surfaces at 300 K or pure Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized through their structural modeling and DFT calculations, crucial for understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' influence on catalytic activity and magnetism, making NiPt an interesting candidate for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80 composition) is created, essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic/chemical properties. Post-deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. These systems, including multilayers with alternating A and B layers, have potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates, Ni on Pt(111) has not been extensively explored theoretically. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations provides relevant insights into the system's properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is achieved using LEED and AES. This process is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation was studied at various Ni coverages, revealing that the starting temperature for alloy formation increases as Ni films transition to 3D islands. This insight is crucial for understanding magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Extensive studies, including AES and TPD experiments, reveal novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, which together deepen our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving advanced surface science techniques and theoretical predictions, validates the unique catalytic behavior of these surfaces, such as the shift in the d-band center of surface Pt atoms due to Ni interaction, leading to reduced adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins. This combination of experimental data and DFT modeling facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms these structures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, the surface chemistry is modified due to lattice mismatch and strain effects, altering electronic properties. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further modifies surface properties. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for understanding changes in electronic properties and correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys are enriched in Pt due to enthalpic driving forces. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's binding and hydrogenation pathways. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibits a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong adsorbate binding. A volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities is established. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at different temperatures, and DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. The boat configuration of cyclohexene is thermodynamically preferred. Surfaces were analyzed using AES and MS in a UHV chamber, and physical vapor deposition was used for surface modification. Theoretical results were calculated using VASP, with spin-polarization for gas-phase molecules and spin-unpolarized calculations for adsorbate-metal systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in the correlation of surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation, as demonstrated on W(111) with various metals, offers insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic interfaces. The correlation between core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) highlights the critical role of this process in understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and comprehending their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. While specific details are scarce, the importance of this characterization is widely recognized.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, particularly in the catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process illuminates the unique electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties can significantly differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in thiophene hydrodesulfurization. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for surface preparation and characterization, providing insights into metal-hydrogen bonds and guiding catalyst design for industrial processes. The focus on thiophene hydrodesulfurization on Ni/Pt(111) surfaces compared to Pt(111) and thick Ni(111) films highlights the role of bimetallic composition in catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by modifying surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is critical for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike reactivity at 300 K, which mimics Ni surfaces. After heating to 600 K, probe reactions reveal activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces. The difference is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enables the investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy emerges, critical for modeling and understanding the surfaces' structural and electronic properties, essential for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms the surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This is essential for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is understudied. Despite the growth in research on metal deposition and heteroepitaxial growth, Ni on Pt(111) has received little theoretical attention. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation for Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates is relevant, highlighting the system's potential significance in catalysis and surface science. This study is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is achieved using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram was determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation was studied at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing as Ni films transition to 3D islands. This process also reveals insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms, which shifts the d-band center and reduces adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) or PtNiPt(111) structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the surface and subsurface Ni distribution. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K results were consistent with Ni diffusion, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. STM further elucidates surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure with Ni atoms beneath the surface Pt. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, combining density functional theory (DFT) modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces that often surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions, enabling predictions of surfaces with desirable catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu reveal that surface and subsurface modifications shift the d-band center, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Pt-enriched bimetallic surfaces, formed at elevated temperatures, exhibit novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways, except for Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen prevents hydrogenation on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces, extending findings to Fe- and Cu-modified Pt(111).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) surface, enabling the correlation of surface structure with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate the growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films, providing insights into bimetallic surface properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into the bimetallic surfaces' properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studying cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. Characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. It also elucidates the PtNi system's fundamental effects, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the unique electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, involving Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, allows for controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying reactivity, selectivity, and the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity. Precise control over surface composition and structure is essential for understanding bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed post-annealing at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions show distinct surface activity. The difference is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region of Pt(111), forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic/chemical properties. This process reveals how Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80 composition) emerges. This detailed characterization is crucial for modeling studies and catalysis research, offering insights into the structural and electronic properties of Ni/Pt surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. After deposition, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed, and annealing leads to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite the growing interest in metal-on-metal systems for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, detailed studies on Ni/Pt surfaces are scarce. Notably, theoretical calculations by Majerus et al. on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates offer some insights relevant to this system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is achieved using LEED and AES. This process is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with NiPt alloy formation studied at various Ni coverages. The starting temperature for alloy formation increases as Ni films transition to 3D islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the surfaces' unique chemical properties. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms leads to a shift in the d-band center, reducing the adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K to form NiPt(111) or at 600 K for PtNiPt(111) structures, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM (quotes [1] and [2]). Annealing the 300 K surface to 900 K and examining the 600 K structure via XPS (Fig. 5 and Fig. 6) confirm the Ni monolayer and subsurface diffusion (quote [6]). STM further characterizes surface morphology (quote [5]). DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure (quote [7]). This characterization is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting catalytic activities. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' binding abilities and activation barriers. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys enriched in Pt exhibit altered electronic properties. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) surfaces exhibit novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways. DFT calculations and experiments establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces. The study extends to Fe and Cu's growth and thermal behavior on Pt(111), using AES and MS for surface characterization and TPD experiments. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at different temperatures, with DFT used to calculate binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. Theoretical results were obtained using VASP, with calculations for hydrogen and cyclohexene's binding on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative method, depositing Pt on a Ni(100) surface, aids in grasping fundamental properties and reactivity. This process correlates surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity upon adding a second metal. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for comprehensive insights.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the W 4f7/2 core levels from the substrate, aiding in understanding the electronic properties. The interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111), crucial for comprehensive insights into electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which demonstrate low-temperature hydrogenation activity. Characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions. Understanding the fundamental role of the PtNi system in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons is also enhanced through this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit distinct catalytic and chemisorptive properties compared to pure metals, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. However, specific details on the characterization process are lacking in the literature, indicating a need for further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in thiophene hydrodesulfurization. Surface science techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, are used for characterization. These methods help in understanding metal-hydrogen bond roles in catalytic activity, guiding efficient catalyst design for industrial processes, and studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by modifying surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    