Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This is critical for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity changes significantly when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, due to its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, enables the study of atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, corresponding to a Ni20Pt80 surface composition. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirmed the Ni monolayer at 300 K, and after annealing to 600-640 K, Ni diffused into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is understudied. Despite this, the deposition of metals on metallic substrates has seen growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Majerus et al. conducted effective medium calculations for Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates, offering theoretical insights into the system's properties. This research is pivotal for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is achieved using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with NiPt alloy formation studied at various Ni coverages. Insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities are also gained.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. Extensive studies on Ni/Pt(111) have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene, highlighting the unique reactivity at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, affecting adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. Combining DFT and experimental methods facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins. Advanced surface science techniques provide structural information essential for accurate DFT modeling, enhancing our understanding of catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Experimental results confirm these structures, with DFT modeling and chemical property measurements supporting the PtNiPt(111) formation. This characterization is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic/chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces can outperform monometallic catalysts in activities and selectivities. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys are Pt-enriched due to enthalpic driving forces. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibits a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at different temperatures, and DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. The study was conducted in a UHV chamber with AES and MS for surface characterization and TPD experiments. Physical vapor deposition modified surfaces, and AES quantified metal deposition and thermal behavior. Theoretical results used VASP for periodic slab calculations, studying binding energies with spin-polarization for gas-phase molecules and spin-unpolarized for adsorbate-metal systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni(100) to study fundamental properties and reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with reactivity upon adding a second constituent, which is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studies using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy on ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111) reveal that core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films, offering insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic interfaces. This correlation is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt surfaces, enhancing our knowledge in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which demonstrate the role of subsurface Ni in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also aids in determining surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation, is a key outcome of this characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the unique electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying reactivity and selectivity, such as in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for surface characterization, providing insights into metal-hydrogen bonds' role in catalytic activity and guiding the design of efficient catalysts. Precise control over surface composition and structure is essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, and for understanding fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is critical for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed only when annealed to 600 K, unlike the reactivity at 300 K, which is similar to Ni surfaces. The difference is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region of Pt(111) at higher temperatures, creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, form ordered and substitutional alloys, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, creating a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, enhancing understanding of electronic and chemical properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface after annealing to 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Despite a lack of theoretical literature on Ni on Pt(111), systems of metals on metallic substrates have seen growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers relevant insights into the Ni/Pt system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing initial growth and alloy formation, is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. LEED determines the phase diagram, revealing pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2) phases. NiPt alloy formation is studied at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloying significantly increasing as Ni films transition to three-dimensional islands, impacting magnetic and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) have observed low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway. Characterization methods, such as AES and TPD, elucidate the structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process, combining experimental techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS with DFT modeling, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins, leading to novel catalytic behavior. This comprehensive approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, such as low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, combining DFT modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. A monolayer of one metal on another's single-crystal substrate studies surface chemistry changes due to bimetallic formation, influenced by lattice mismatch and heterometallic bonds. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter for electronic property changes, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and affects activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals (Fe, Co, Ni, Cu) reveal the effects on hydrogen and cyclohexene binding, and low-temperature hydrogenation. Surface alloys, enriched in Pt due to lower surface energy, are observed at elevated temperatures. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting electronic properties. Cyclohexene, due to its competitive reaction pathways, is an ideal probe for comparing bimetallic surfaces' chemical properties. Subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit novel hydrogenation pathways, observed similarly for Pt-Fe-Pt(111) but not for Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong cyclohexene and hydrogen binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces. The study includes the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES and MS for surface characterization and TPD experiments. Surfaces were modified by physical vapor deposition, with DFT calculations determining binding energies of hydrogen and cyclohexene. Theoretical results were calculated using VASP, with super cells allowing for relaxation of the top two layers. Gas-phase calculations were spin-polarized, while adsorbate-metal system calculations were spin-unpolarized. Cyclohexene was bonded in the di-σ configuration, with hydrogen atoms in the nearest threefold hollow sites to study repulsion effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Pt on Ni(100) as an alternative approach, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to study growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces, highlighting their importance in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This detailed analysis is fundamental to advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveal subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation, is thus critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and comprehending their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit distinct catalytic and chemisorptive properties compared to pure metals, offering insights crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic/chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, involving Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, enables controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying reactivity and selectivity, such as in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. The characterization guides catalyst design and elucidates metal-hydrogen bond roles in catalytic activity, essential for industrial process efficiency. Precise control of surface composition and structure aids in studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, and understanding reaction mechanisms on these surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. After annealing to 600 K, probe reactions show distinct surface activity. DFT studies reveal that the difference is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized for structural modeling and DFT calculations, crucial for understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming ordered alloys at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80) is created. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This characterization is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, have seen growing interest for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite this, specific details on their characterization are scarce in the literature. Notably, the Ni on Pt(111) system has not been extensively studied theoretically, except for Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, which is pertinent to understanding these surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process reveals initial growth, alloy formation, and various structural phases: pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram is determined by LEED, and NiPt alloy formation is studied at different Ni coverages, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in catalysis research. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data for DFT modeling, which reveals the d-band center shift in surface Pt atoms due to subsurface Ni interaction. This results in reduced adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins, enhancing catalytic behavior. The synergy between experimental data and theoretical calculations facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface and PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, STM, and DFT modeling confirms the structural changes and Ni diffusion. At 300 K, Ni remains on the surface, while at 600 K, it diffuses into the subsurface. This process is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Using DFT modeling and surface science experiments, researchers study the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces, which often exceed those of monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another metal modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and the strain effect. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further alters surface electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding changes in electronic properties and correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. This study modifies Pt(111) with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, and finds that surface alloys are enriched in Pt due to its lower surface energy. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level compared to Ni(111), while subsurface Ni moves it away. Cyclohexene is used as a probe molecule for comparing chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces. Subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, as does Pt-Fe-Pt(111), but not Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen. DFT modeling and experimental results establish a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Pt on Ni(100), is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, highlighting the importance of this characterization process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, despite the literature's lack of specific details on this characterization.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in enhancing low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also aids in determining surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. This fundamental understanding of the PtNi system is crucial for catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. Despite its significance in advanced surface science and catalysis research, specifics on the characterization method are scarce in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, allows for controlled composition and structure, critical for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. The characterization provides insights into catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts and enabling precise control of surface composition, which affects catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding their electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but after annealing to 600 K, unique surface activity emerges, distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized to understand their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, though not fully described in literature, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. The NiPt system, with high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, allows investigation of atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80 composition) is formed. This detailed characterization is vital for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111), are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms the presence of a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition at 300 K and suggests Ni diffusion into the subsurface region after annealing to 600-640 K, potentially forming a PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for correlating bimetallic structures with their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of detailed literature, the study of metals on metallic substrates has expanded, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. The Ni on Pt(111) system, while not extensively studied, is relevant to theoretical calculations by Majerus et al., indicating its potential significance in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is achieved using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). NiPt alloy formation is temperature-dependent, increasing as Ni films become 3D islands. This characterization also reveals insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies using AES and TPD reveal novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms, crucial for atomic-level insights into bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical calculations, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior of the Ni/Pt system. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This synergy between DFT and experiments is crucial for designing bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, such as low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties that surpass monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting catalytic activities. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' binding abilities and activation barriers. Studies on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show varied hydrogenation pathways, with subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibiting novel low-temperature hydrogenation. The Pt-Cu-Pt(111) surface, however, does not show the same pathway. A volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities is established among various bimetallic surfaces. This comprehensive characterization enables first-principles predictions of surfaces with desirable catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process allows correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate the growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studies using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy on ultrathin metal overlayers reveal that core-level binding energy shifts at the interface correlate with heats of adsorption, providing insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic systems. This process is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, enhancing our knowledge in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process is critical for a comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties relevant to advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction, revealing its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. Despite its significance, literature lacks details on the specific characterization methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Characterization using techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction enables structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process facilitates the study of surfaces with controlled compositions and structures, crucial for understanding reactivity and selectivity in reactions like hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. The insights gained from these characterizations guide the design of efficient catalysts and the understanding of metal-hydrogen bond roles in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is critical for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis research. Notably, unique surface activity is observed only when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. After heating to 600 K, the surfaces exhibit activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is attributed to the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At elevated temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy emerges, crucial for modeling and computational studies in catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces for advanced surface science and catalysis. After Ni deposition at 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer was confirmed. Annealing to 600-640 K resulted in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure, as supported by DFT calculations and chemical property measurements.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of specific literature, studies on metals deposited on metallic substrates have grown, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. These systems, including Ni/Pt, have potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, tribology, and corrosion. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations is relevant to understanding the Ni/Pt system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). NiPt alloy formation varies with Ni coverage, with higher starting temperatures for three-dimensional islands. This aids in understanding magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni is key in inducing low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT with surface science experiments like AES, TPD, and HREELS provides insights into the catalytic properties, enabling the design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms these structures, supported by DFT modeling. AES, LEIS, and XPS validate the surface and subsurface Ni layers, while STM reveals surface morphology. This characterization is vital for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. A monolayer of one metal on another modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influences activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show variations in hydrogenation pathways, with subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibiting novel low-temperature hydrogenation. The study extends to Fe- and Cu-modified surfaces, calculating binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, demonstrating the boat configuration's thermodynamic preference. Surfaces were prepared by physical vapor deposition, with AES quantification of metal deposition and thermal behavior. Theoretical calculations used VASP, studying binding energies with spin-polarization for gas-phase molecules and spin-unpolarized for adsorbate-metal systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to study the growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is a key technique, as demonstrated in studies of ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111). The correlation between core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) is crucial for understanding the electronic properties of bimetallic interfaces. This process is essential for comprehensive modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction, demonstrating low-temperature hydrogenation activity. This understanding is crucial for determining surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity in various reactions. It also offers insights into the fundamental effects of the PtNi system in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. However, specific details on the characterization methods are scarce in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in hydrodesulfurization reactions. Characterization techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are employed to study surface properties, guiding the design of efficient catalysts and understanding the effects of bimetallic composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, differing from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces at 300 K. Heating to 600 K causes Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures, explaining the activity differences.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, with high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, allows studying atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, with a Ni20Pt80 composition in the surface topmost layer. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111), are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, correlating bimetallic structures with electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed, while annealing to 600-640 K suggests Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming a PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is understudied, despite the system's relevance to applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Recent growth in studying metals on metallic substrates emphasizes the importance of understanding deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. Although Ni on Pt(111) lacks theoretical literature, calculations by Majerus et al. on Pt/Ni combinations offer some insights.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is achieved using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. The formation of NiPt alloy was studied at various Ni coverages, revealing that the starting temperature for alloy formation increases significantly as Ni thin films transition to three-dimensional islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst reactivity at an atomic level. Characterization methods, such as AES and TPD, elucidate the structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using experimental techniques and DFT calculations to model their structure and electronic properties. This process, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms. This interaction shifts the d-band center of surface Pt atoms, reducing adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Surface science techniques provide structural information essential for accurate DFT modeling, which in turn aids in understanding the electronic properties and catalytic behavior of bimetallic surfaces, facilitating the design of catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface or PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures, respectively. Characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the presence of surface Ni monolayers and subsurface Ni diffusion. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K, respectively, was consistent with these structures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements further support the PtNiPt(111) structure. This comprehensive characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, aiding in structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving density functional theory (DFT) modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties that enhance catalytic activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the binding of small adsorbates and reaction pathways. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for understanding these changes. Studies on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show varied effects on cyclohexene binding and hydrogenation, with subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibiting novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways. The binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on these surfaces correlate with hydrogenation activities, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Surface preparation methods, including physical vapor deposition and thermal behavior analysis, are essential for characterizing these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's effects, crucial for low-temperature hydrogenation activity as seen in cyclohexene reaction pathways. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally enhances insights into hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit distinct catalytic and chemisorptive properties compared to pure metals, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, using techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, allows for the study of surfaces' reactivity and selectivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The surfaces' precise control and composition are vital for understanding catalytic activity, as demonstrated in the low-temperature hydrodesulfurization of thiophene, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but after annealing to 600 K, unique surface activity is observed, unlike Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' influence on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for studies due to its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, critical for modeling and computational studies in catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, correlating bimetallic structures with electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed, while annealing to 600-640 K suggests Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming a PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals deposited on metallic substrates, including the heteroepitaxial growth of A on B and multilayer fabrication, has expanded, with potential applications in various fields. Despite this, the Ni on Pt(111) system has not been extensively explored theoretically. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, though not directly about Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, offers relevant insights into the system's properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation is temperature-dependent, increasing as Ni films transition to 3D islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces, as observed in low-temperature H2 desorption and cyclohexene self-hydrogenation. AES and TPD experiments, as used in Co/Pt(111) studies, may be applied, highlighting the atomic-level understanding of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, validates the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy, and revealing novel catalytic behavior. DFT modeling, informed by surface science experiments, facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). AES, LEIS, and XPS confirm the surface and subsurface structures, with STM revealing surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, understanding electronic and chemical properties, and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Using DFT modeling and surface science experiments, researchers study the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces, which often exceed those of monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' binding abilities and catalytic properties. Cyclohexene serves as an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties due to its competitive reaction pathways. Previous studies on Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) showed novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways, which were extended to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces. The hydrogenation pathway did not occur on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen binding. The study also explored the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using DFT to calculate binding energies and AES for surface composition analysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) surface, which helps correlate changes in surface structure with chemical reactivity. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studies using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy on ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111) reveal that core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films. This correlation is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic interfaces, highlighting the importance of this process in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Despite limited literature on specific methods, this characterization is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction, demonstrating its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It aids in predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the electronic and chemical properties unique to bimetallic surfaces, revealing catalytic and chemisorptive properties that differ significantly from those of pure metals. This characterization is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, offering insights into how bimetallic surfaces' properties diverge from their pure metal components.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni monolayers on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for this purpose. These surfaces, with controlled compositions and structures, are studied for their reactivity and selectivity, particularly in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization reveals the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts and allowing precise control of surface composition and structure, essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    