Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties relevant to advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. Heating to 600 K reveals surface activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, form ordered alloys at step edges and randomly embed Ni on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80) emerges. This detailed characterization is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for catalysis and surface science. The NiPt system's high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order make it an ideal candidate for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is critical for correlating bimetallic structures with their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. These systems, including multilayers with alternating A and B layers, have potential applications in various fields. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates, Ni on Pt(111) was not previously considered in theoretical literature. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations provides relevant theoretical insight into the system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing initial growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram reveals the formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing as Ni thin films transition to three-dimensional islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni is crucial for low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms at an atomic level, comparing 1 ML Co/Pt(111) with Pt(111) and thick Co films.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data essential for accurate DFT modeling. This modeling reveals the d-band center shift in surface Pt atoms due to subsurface Ni interaction, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energies compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. The synergy between experimental data and theoretical calculations facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for various chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces can exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bonds modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level, which correlates with catalytic properties. Studies on cyclohexene hydrogenation pathways on Pt-modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu highlight the role of subsurface Pt in novel low-temperature hydrogenation. The boat configuration of di-σ bonded cyclohexene is thermodynamically preferred. The research extends to the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES and DFT calculations to quantify physical vapor deposition and thermal behavior, and to calculate binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative method, depositing Pt on Ni(100), aids in studying fundamental properties and reactivity. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights into bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studies using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy on ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111) exemplify the process, revealing that core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption. This method, though not directly on Ni/Pt, highlights the importance of characterizing bimetallic interfaces for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, which is critical for comprehensive modeling and DFT calculations in surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research. Despite a lack of specific literature, this process is recognized as critical for comprehensive insights into bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions, offering fundamental insights into the PtNi system's catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process reveals how the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties that are crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It enables the creation of surfaces with controlled compositions and structures, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, guiding catalyst design for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity changes significantly when surfaces are annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing Ni on Pt substrates is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for studying catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming ordered alloys at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, crucial for modeling and computational studies in catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111), are characterized using LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. Characterization confirmed a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition and suggested Ni diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, forming a PtNiPt(111) structure. These findings are critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates has seen growing interest, with a focus on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth. Despite this, specific literature on the characterization of Ni/Pt surfaces is scarce. Majerus et al. contributed theoretical calculations for Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates, which, though not directly addressing Ni/Pt characterization, are relevant. These bimetallic surfaces are anticipated to have broad applications in areas like catalysis, magnetism, and optics, underscoring the need for comprehensive characterization and structural modeling to understand their electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is achieved using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram was determined by LEED, and the formation of NiPt alloy was studied at various Ni coverages, revealing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates bimetallic catalyst reactivity at an atomic level, comparing 1 ML Co/Pt(111) with Pt(111) and thick Co films.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This combination facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K to form NiPt(111) or at 600 K to create PtNiPt(111), are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer, while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's position, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. STM reveals surface morphology at both temperatures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest PtNiPt(111) structure formation. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. These surfaces exhibit unique properties, enhancing activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Fundamental studies using DFT modeling and surface science experiments explore the novel properties of bimetallic surfaces. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and strain effects. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further alters electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. This study examines the effects of bimetallic formation on the binding of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, and low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene, using Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu. Depositing these metals at room temperature forms surface monolayers, while elevated temperatures create surface alloys enriched in Pt. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's reaction pathways. The study extends findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures. The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong adsorbate binding. Combined experimental and DFT results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables correlating surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is employed to study ultrathin metal overlayers, measuring the W 4f7/2 core levels from the substrate. This process is essential for understanding the electronic properties, as shifts in the core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy correlate with the heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111), providing insights into the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Despite a lack of detailed literature, this process is essential for comprehensive research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as demonstrated by the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveal the role of subsurface Ni in low-temperature hydrogenation. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi bimetallic system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process illuminates how the bimetallic surface's properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties that can significantly differ from pure metals, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, employing Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, facilitates the study of reactivity and selectivity, particularly in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. It reveals the impact of metal-hydrogen bonds on catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts and enabling precise control of surface composition and structure, crucial for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates at various temperatures with annealing, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to these bimetallics is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. Heating to 600 K reveals activity distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the impact of structural parameters on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for studying catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order. At terrace and step sites, Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. Higher temperatures lead to a 2x2 substitutional alloy, enhancing our understanding of structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer presence and its subsurface diffusion upon annealing, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for correlating bimetallic structures with their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of literature on the specific characterization methods, the study of metals on metallic substrates has seen growth, with applications in catalysis, among others. Majerus et al.'s work on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers theoretical insights relevant to the Ni/Pt system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing initial growth and alloy formation, is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Notable structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram, determined by LEED, and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are key. The starting temperature for alloy formation increases as Ni films transition to 3D islands, providing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties, crucial for atomic-level reactivity insights. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt systems, by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. Techniques like AES and TPD, used in Co/Pt surface studies, are essential for elucidating structural and electronic properties that influence catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, combining experimental techniques and theoretical calculations, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior of Ni/Pt surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This comprehensive approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). AES, XPS, and STM confirm the structures, with LEIS showing annealing effects. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties that enhance catalytic activities and selectivities. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and strain effects, altering electronic properties. Heterometallic bonds further modify surface properties, known as the ligand effect. The surface d-band center's position, a critical parameter, correlates with binding abilities and activation barriers for reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys, enriched in Pt, exhibit altered electronic properties. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways, while Pt-Fe-Pt(111) shows similar behavior, but Pt-Cu-Pt(111) does not. The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen. Combined experimental and DFT results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in the study of PtNi surfaces' fundamental properties and reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces, highlighting their importance in structural modeling and DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, revealing its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions, offering fundamental insights into the PtNi system's catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process illuminates how the bimetallic surface's properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive characteristics that are distinct from the individual components. This understanding is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for precise surface composition and structure control. This facilitates studying reactivity and selectivity, such as in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene, guiding catalyst design for industrial processes. The surfaces' metal-hydrogen bond role in catalytic activity is a key insight gained from this characterization.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by modifying surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Surface science techniques and DFT modeling are used for this purpose. Notably, unique surface activity is observed only when the surfaces are annealed to 600 K, due to the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface region of Pt(111), creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized to understand their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming ordered alloys at step edges and substitutional alloys at higher temperatures, impacting catalytic activity and magnetism. This detailed characterization supports structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of these surfaces' properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms the presence of a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition at 300 K. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure, as supported by DFT calculations and chemical property measurements. This characterization is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals deposited on metallic substrates, including the synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, has seen growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite a lack of theoretical study on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al. performed effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, offering insights relevant to these surfaces. This characterization is crucial for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram, determined by LEED, reveals the formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing as Ni films become three-dimensional islands. This characterization also provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Techniques like AES and TPD are employed for characterization, revealing the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our grasp of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, combining experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, validates models with real data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior of these surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energies compared to pure metals. This synergy between DFT and experiments facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for various reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements support the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch modifies surface electronic properties, while heterometallic bonds alter the surface's electronic state, known as the ligand effect. The surface d-band center's position is crucial for understanding bimetallic surfaces' catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show that surface alloys enriched in Pt exhibit novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways, particularly for cyclohexene, which is an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties. DFT calculations and surface characterization methods, such as AES and TPD, were used to determine the binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces. The boat configuration of di-σ bonded cyclohexene was found to be thermodynamically preferred. The study also explored the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), revealing changes in surface composition at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the correlation of surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studies using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy on ultrathin metal overlayers, such as those on W(111), reveal that core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption, providing insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic interfaces. This method is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, enhancing our knowledge in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, crucial for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Studying cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation, enhancing our fundamental understanding of the PtNi system in hydrocarbon catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' catalytic and chemisorptive properties differ significantly from those of pure metals, offering insights crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Characterization using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction enables precise control of surface composition and structure. This process is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, especially the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity. The insights gained guide the design of efficient catalysts and the study of bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized via Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt at 300K with annealing at 600K, or direct deposition at 600K, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems emerges at 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. Annealing to 600 K causes Ni diffusion into the subsurface, creating PtNiPt(111) structures, which is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized through their structural outcomes, crucial for modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80 composition) is created. This detailed characterization is essential for computational studies and insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' properties, critical for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This characterization is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of the electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed, while annealing to 600-640 K suggests Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming a PtNiPt structure, as supported by DFT calculations and chemical property measurements.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, Ni on Pt(111) has received less attention. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates provides theoretical relevance to these systems, highlighting their potential importance in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process reveals structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. The phase diagram, determined by LEED, and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are key. Alloy formation's starting temperature increases with three-dimensional island formation. This process also provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. Though direct methods for Ni/Pt characterization aren't specified, studies on Co/Pt(111) using AES and TPD highlight the importance of such techniques in elucidating bimetallic surface properties and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, crucial for structural modeling and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This combination of DFT and experiments facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, such as low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface and PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures, respectively. Characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirmed the presence of surface Ni monolayers and subsurface Ni diffusion. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K produced distinct structures, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. STM revealed surface morphologies at 300 K and 600 K. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggested the PtNiPt(111) structure with Ni atoms beneath the surface Pt. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, the effects on surface chemistry can be studied. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify the surface electronic properties, known as the strain and ligand effects. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for understanding changes in electronic properties, correlating with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. Cyclohexene serves as an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties due to its competitive reaction pathways. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu forms surface monolayers at room temperature and surface alloys at elevated temperatures, enriched in Pt due to enthalpic driving forces. DFT calculations and experiments establish a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces. The study also explores the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES and MS for surface analysis. Surfaces were prepared by physical vapor deposition, and theoretical results were calculated using VASP code, studying binding energies with spin-polarization for gas-phase molecules and spin-unpolarized for adsorbate-metal systems. The binding of cyclohexene was studied in di-σ configurations, with hydrogen co-adsorbed to assess repulsion effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Pt on Ni(100) as an alternative approach, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process allows correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to study growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process, though not directly discussed for Ni/Pt, is akin to studies on ultrathin metal overlayers using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy. The correlation between core-level binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on substrates is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into the bimetallic interfaces' properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Despite limited literature on specifics, this process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, as evidenced by cyclohexene reaction pathway studies on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, revealing subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity in various reactions, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the electronic and chemical properties unique to bimetallic systems, which can significantly differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for precise surface composition and structure control. This aids in studying reactivity, selectivity, and the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts. The surfaces' characterization, particularly for the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene, reveals insights into bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces are synthesized via physical vapor deposition of Ni on Pt(111) single crystals or polycrystalline Pt substrates at various temperatures. Characterization employs TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES to investigate structure, composition, and chemical properties. DFT calculations highlight the role of subsurface Ni atoms in weakening metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity changes significantly when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions reveal unique activity. Structural studies show that at higher temperatures, Ni diffuses into the subsurface of Pt, creating PtNiPt(111) structures, explaining the observed differences.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for studies due to its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, critical for modeling and computational studies in catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition at 300 K. Annealing to 600-640 K results in Ni diffusion into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure, critical for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite the lack of detailed literature, the study of metals on metallic substrates has expanded, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. The Ni on Pt(111) system, though not widely explored theoretically, is relevant to multilayer systems and has been partially addressed in effective medium calculations by Majerus et al.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with NiPt alloy formation influenced by Ni coverage and three-dimensional island formation, impacting magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces, crucial for atomic-level understanding and comparison with Pt(111) and thick Co films.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms, which shifts the d-band center and reduces adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins. Combining DFT with surface science experiments, like AES, TPD, and HREELS, provides a powerful tool for designing bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni atoms form a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, they diffuse into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). DFT modeling and experimental data confirm these structures and suggest the PtNiPt(111) configuration after annealing. This comprehensive characterization is vital for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties that enhance catalytic activities and selectivities. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers for reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on cyclohexene hydrogenation on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show varied reaction pathways. Pt-enriched bimetallic surfaces, formed at elevated temperatures, exhibit shifts in the d-band center due to surface strain and interdiffusion. Kitchin et al.'s findings on Ni-modified Pt(111) are extended to other 3d metals, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface bimetallic structures. The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong adsorbate binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at different temperatures, and DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. The study was conducted in a UHV chamber with AES and MS for surface analysis and gas purity verification. Physical vapor deposition was used to modify surfaces, and AES quantified metal deposition and thermal behavior. Theoretical calculations employed VASP code, studying binding energies using supercells with relaxed top layers. Gas-phase calculations were spin-polarized, while adsorbate-metal system calculations were spin-unpolarized. Cyclohexene binding was studied on hydrogen co-adsorbed surfaces, with the boat configuration found to be thermodynamically preferred.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative approach, depositing Pt on Ni(100), aids in correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Key characterization techniques include XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD, which investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation, as demonstrated on W(111) substrates, allows for the identification of interfacial binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption. This process is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic interfaces, directly applicable to Ni/Pt surfaces, enhancing our comprehensive knowledge in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveal its role in inducing low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the unique electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, which can significantly differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, particularly in reactions like hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization methods, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, are standard for surface property analysis. These techniques provide insights into metal-hydrogen bonds' role in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts and allowing precise control of surface composition and structure, crucial for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aids in comprehending the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but unique activity emerges at 600 K due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, creating PtNiPt(111) structures. This process is essential for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized through their structural modeling and DFT calculations, crucial for understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces, which is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties critical for catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM. This process is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed, while annealing to 600-640 K suggests Ni diffusion into the subsurface, potentially forming a PtNiPt(111) structure. These findings are critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals deposited on metallic substrates, including Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, has seen rapid growth. Despite this, detailed characterization of Ni/Pt surfaces is scarce in the literature. These systems are significant for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, tribology, and corrosion. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations provides some theoretical insight into the Ni/Pt system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, reveals structural phases: pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). Alloy formation's starting temperature rises significantly as Ni films transition to 3D islands, crucial for understanding magnetic properties and catalytic activities, impacting structural modeling, DFT calculations, and advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process reveals the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts, elucidating novel reaction mechanisms and electronic properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. AES and TPD experiments are used for characterization, providing insights into the structural and electronic properties that influence catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, combining experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, elucidates the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy, enhancing catalytic behavior. DFT modeling, informed by experimental data, facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving density functional theory (DFT) modeling and surface science experiments, elucidates the unique properties of bimetallic surfaces that surpass monometallic catalysts in activities and selectivities. A monolayer of one metal on another's single-crystal substrate studies surface chemistry modifications due to bimetallic formation, influenced by lattice mismatch and heterometallic bonds. The surface d-band center's position is a critical parameter for understanding electronic property changes and correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers. The study of Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, reveals the formation of surface monolayers and alloys at room and elevated temperatures, respectively. These alloys are enriched in Pt due to its lower surface energy, affecting interdiffusion and electronic properties. DFT calculations and experiments on cyclohexene hydrogenation pathways on these surfaces establish a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities. The study extends to the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), with surfaces prepared by physical vapor deposition and characterized using AES and MS. Theoretical results, calculated using VASP, show binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, demonstrating the thermodynamically preferred boat configuration for di-σ bonded cyclohexene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Pt on Ni(100) as an alternative approach, is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This correlation between surface structure and reactivity is achieved using XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD techniques, providing insights into growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the electronic properties of these interfaces. The correlation between core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111) is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, highlighting the significance of this process in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research, despite a lack of detailed methods in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which demonstrate its role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. Understanding the surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity is essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, providing insights into the fundamental catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties that are crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in catalysis. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for characterization. These surfaces, with controlled compositions, are studied for reactivity and selectivity, particularly in reactions like hydrodesulfurization, providing insights into metal-hydrogen bond roles in catalytic activity and guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) single crystals or polycrystalline Pt substrates at various temperatures, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. DFT calculations reveal that subsurface Ni atoms weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by altering the surface Pt atoms' electronic structure, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    