Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but after annealing to 600 K, unique surface activity emerges, unlike Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, creating PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. The NiPt system's high catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order make it an interesting candidate for investigations. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy with a Ni20Pt80 composition is formed. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into the structural and electronic properties of Ni/Pt surfaces, critical for catalysis and other surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer presence and Ni diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting a PtNiPt structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. These systems, including multilayers of A and B, have potential applications in various fields. Despite the lack of theoretical study on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations provides relevant insights.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using LEED and AES, revealing structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). This process is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, including the formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages, which affects magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway. Characterization methods, possibly including Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD), are crucial for elucidating the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical calculations, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms leads to a shift in the d-band center, reducing the adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This comprehensive approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for various chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). These structures are confirmed by experimental techniques, with DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces can exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, researchers can study the effects of bimetallic formation on surface chemistry. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, known as the strain and ligand effects. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter for electronic properties, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence activation barriers. In this study, Pt(111) was modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, forming 3d-Pt-Pt(111) and Pt-3d-Pt(111) surfaces. DFT calculations and experiments on cyclohexene hydrogenation pathways on these surfaces allowed for the establishment of a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities. The study also explored the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES and MS for surface characterization and quantification.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach, depositing Pt on Ni(100), aids in studying fundamental properties and reactivity. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, highlighting the critical role of characterization in structural modeling and DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the role of subsurface Ni in catalytic hydrogenation, as seen in cyclohexene reaction pathways, which exhibit low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, providing fundamental insights into the PtNi system's catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals how bimetallic properties differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors unique to bimetallic systems. However, specifics on the characterization method are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, particularly in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are employed for surface characterization, providing insights into metal-hydrogen bond roles in catalytic activity and guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Unique surface activity is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, creating PtNiPt(111) structures, crucial for comprehensive research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the study of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, noted for high catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order, allows investigation of atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At elevated temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, critical for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, essential for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm the surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface after annealing to 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is critical for understanding the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is understudied. Despite this, research on metals on metallic substrates has grown, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth, with potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Notably, Majerus et al. conducted effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, offering theoretical insights relevant to the Ni/Pt system.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram was determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation was studied at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing significantly as Ni thin films transition to 3D islands. This process also reveals insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway. Characterization methods, including AES and TPD, elucidate the structural and electronic properties, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalysts' reactivity at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the surfaces' unique chemical properties. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms leads to a shift in the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT and experimental techniques facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirmed these structures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces can outperform monometallic catalysts due to unique properties. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting catalytic activities. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter, correlating with adsorbate binding and reaction barriers. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Ni, show shifts in the d-band center, impacting cyclohexene binding and hydrogenation pathways. Surface alloys enriched in Pt exhibit altered chemical properties, and DFT modeling helps predict surfaces with desirable catalytic activities. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties across bimetallic surfaces, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on certain structures. The combined experimental and theoretical approach establishes relationships between binding energies and hydrogenation activities, advancing our understanding of bimetallic surfaces in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni(100) to study fundamental properties and reactivity. This process enables correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is employed to study ultrathin metal overlayers, including Ni/Pt, on W(111). This method measures core-level binding energies, which correlate with heats of adsorption, providing insights into the electronic properties at the interface. Understanding these properties is critical for modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our knowledge of bimetallic surfaces' behavior in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Despite the literature's lack of specific details, this characterization is critical for comprehensive research in these fields.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction, which reveals its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. This understanding is pivotal for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions, offering insights into the PtNi system's fundamental impact on hydrocarbon catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the unique electronic and chemical properties crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process reveals how bimetallic properties, including catalytic and chemisorptive characteristics, can significantly differ from those of pure metals, offering insights essential for scientific and catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity using surface science techniques. Characterization methods include Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, which are essential for studying surface properties and guiding the design of efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, deepens our understanding of electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling, crucial for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Surface activity changes significantly when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. After heating, the surfaces exhibit unique activity, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, undergo structural changes crucial for modeling and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered alloys at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy emerges, enhancing the surface's catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. This detailed characterization is essential for DFT calculations and modeling studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' properties critical for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm the surface Ni monolayer and its diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties, advancing surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates is a focus in advanced surface science and catalysis research. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, specific details on characterizing Ni/Pt surfaces are scarce. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation for Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations offers theoretical insights relevant to understanding these surfaces' electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using LEED and AES, revealing structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent, incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. The phase diagram determined by LEED and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are key findings. Notably, the starting temperature for alloy formation increases as Ni thin films transition to 3D islands, offering insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process, crucial for structural modeling, allows for accurate DFT predictions, validating theoretical data with experiments. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins, showcasing novel catalytic behavior. Advanced surface science techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data essential for DFT modeling, enhancing understanding of electronic properties and catalytic behavior, facilitating the design of improved catalysts for chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface location, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements support the PtNiPt(111) structure formation. This characterization is vital for modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties that enhance catalytic activities and selectivities. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers for reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties, with low-temperature hydrogenation pathways varying among bimetallic surfaces. Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu forms surface monolayers at room temperature and surface alloys at elevated temperatures, enriched in Pt due to enthalpic driving forces. DFT calculations of binding energies for atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, conducted in a UHV chamber with AES and MS, support experimental findings. The boat configuration of di-σ bonded cyclohexene is thermodynamically preferred. The study extends to the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), revealing critical temperatures for diffusion into the bulk. Theoretical results, calculated using VASP, involve super cells with four atomic layers, allowing relaxation of the top two layers. Spin-polarization is implemented for gas-phase calculations, while spin-unpolarized calculations are used for adsorbate-metal systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni(100) to study fundamental properties and reactivity. This process enables correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, essential for comprehensive understanding.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the W 4f7/2 core levels from the substrate, aiding in understanding the electronic and chemical properties at the interface. Binding energy shifts of interfacial W atoms correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111), crucial for comprehensive modeling and DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research, as it elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties. Studying cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity, aiding in the prediction and control of catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. This understanding is fundamental for the catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their unique electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals how bimetallic properties diverge from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. However, specific details on characterization methods are lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, enables the creation of surfaces with controlled compositions and structures, crucial for studying reactivity and selectivity in advanced surface science and catalysis research. Precise control over surface composition and structure is essential for understanding bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates at 300K and annealed at 600K, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. At 300 K, reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but after annealing to 600 K, unique surface activity is observed, unlike Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This is due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, enhancing our understanding of structural and electronic properties, which are essential for catalysis and other surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirms a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for correlating bimetallic structures with their electronic and chemical properties, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates is a focus of recent research. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more, specific details on characterizing Ni/Pt surfaces are scarce. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations highlights the theoretical interest in these systems, crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram determined by LEED reveals the formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing as Ni thin films transition to 3D islands. This process also provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for atomic-level insights into bimetallic catalyst reactivity. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt systems, by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Analogous to Co/Pt(111) studies, AES and TPD experiments likely play a role in characterizing Ni/Pt surfaces, elucidating their unique reactivity and electronic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, combining experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, validates models with real data, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. The unique catalytic behavior of Ni/Pt surfaces, due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms, leads to a shift in the d-band center, affecting adsorption energies. DFT modeling, informed by experimental data from techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS, facilitates the design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, form NiPt(111) surface or PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures, respectively. Comprehensive characterization using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM confirms the presence of Ni monolayers and subsurface diffusion. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure, with Ni atoms beneath the surface Pt. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Bimetallic surfaces often exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Fundamental studies using DFT modeling and surface science experiments explore the novel properties of these surfaces. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another metal modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and strain effects. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further alters electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding changes in electronic properties and correlates with binding abilities and activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments study the effects of bimetallic formation on binding and hydrogenation reactions. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu forms surface monolayers at room temperature and surface alloys at elevated temperatures, enriched in Pt due to enthalpic driving forces. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit novel hydrogenation pathways, while Pt-Fe-Pt(111) shows similar behavior, but Pt-Cu-Pt(111) does not. The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities. The study includes the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES for quantification and UHV chamber for experiments. DFT calculations determine binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, showing the boat configuration as thermodynamically preferred for di-σ bonded cyclohexene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach, depositing Pt on Ni(100), aids in correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate the growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation helps identify interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is crucial for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, enhancing our knowledge in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process deepens our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It also aids in determining surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions, particularly in hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties diverge from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, enables controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying catalytic activity and selectivity. It provides insights into metal-hydrogen bond roles and guides the design of efficient catalysts, essential for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, involves surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This is essential for structural understanding and predicting properties in catalysis. Surface activity is temperature-dependent, with 300 K showing Ni-like reactivity, while 600 K reveals unique activity. At 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enables the investigation of structural parameters' influence on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject for its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, crucial for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties essential for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt structure. This characterization is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals deposited on metallic substrates, including the synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, has seen significant growth. These systems are crucial for applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite the lack of theoretical literature on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al.'s work on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates highlights the relevance of such studies for understanding the properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process reveals structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations. The formation of NiPt alloy at various Ni coverages and the increase in starting temperature for alloy formation as Ni films turn 3D are observed. This research provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway. AES and TPD experiments, used for Co/Pt(111) characterization, highlight methods applicable to Ni/Pt surfaces, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst reactivity at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, involves advanced surface science techniques and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic properties. DFT modeling, informed by experimental data from AES, TPD, and HREELS, reveals the d-band center shift in surface Pt atoms, impacting adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. This comprehensive approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms these structures. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys are Pt-enriched, influencing the interdiffusion of Pt and 3d metals. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, while subsurface Ni moves it away, findings extended to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified surfaces. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures, with similar results for Pt-Fe-Pt(111) but not Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong adsorbate binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among 3d/Pt(111) surfaces. The study also explores the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES for quantification and UHV chamber for experiments. DFT calculations determine binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, showing the boat configuration as thermodynamically preferred for di-σ bonded cyclohexene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to study growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates the impact of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, revealing its role in low-temperature hydrogenation. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties diverge from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, enables the study of surface reactivity and selectivity, crucial for catalysis research. The surfaces' precise composition and structure control are essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes. The hydrodesulfurization of thiophene serves as a model reaction, illustrating the surfaces' catalytic activity and the role of metal-hydrogen bonds.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Unique surface activity is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, creating PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, undergo structural changes where Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy emerges, critical for understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties. This detailed characterization is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and advancing knowledge in catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirming the Ni monolayer presence and suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure after annealing, with Ni atoms diffusing into the subsurface. This characterization is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of detailed literature on this specific system, the study of metals on metallic substrates has seen significant growth, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Ni on Pt(111) has not been extensively considered theoretically, but calculations by Majerus et al. offer relevant insights into single-atom adsorbate combinations, highlighting the system's potential in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), and investigating NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages, is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities are also gained, making it essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni is key in inducing low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Advanced surface science techniques combined with DFT modeling provide insights into the unique catalytic behavior of these surfaces, such as the shift in the d-band center affecting hydrogen and olefin adsorption energies. This integrated approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for various chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface presence, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another, the surface chemistry is modified due to lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation, affecting electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers for reactions, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show that surface alloys, enriched in Pt, exhibit altered electronic properties. The ligand effect, observed in Ni-modified Pt(111), shifts the d-band center, influencing cyclohexene's hydrogenation pathways. The competitive nature of cyclohexene's reaction pathways makes it an ideal probe for comparing bimetallic surfaces' chemical properties. DFT modeling and experimental results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Pt on Ni(100), is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process correlates surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to study growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the W 4f7/2 core-level binding energy shifts at the interface, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This method is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, demonstrating the critical role of characterization in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process is pivotal for comprehending the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveal subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates how bimetallic properties differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors. Despite its significance, details on the characterization method are scarce in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for precise surface analysis. This process allows for controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying catalytic activity and selectivity, particularly in reactions like hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Understanding metal-hydrogen bonds on these surfaces guides the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Unique surface activity is observed post-annealing at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, undergo structural changes where Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, crucial for understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties. This detailed characterization is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and catalysis research, providing insights into the surfaces' properties and their applications in advanced surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the electronic and chemical properties. AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirmed the Ni monolayer at 300 K, and after annealing to 600-640 K, Ni diffused into the subsurface, suggesting a PtNiPt structure, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is not well-documented in literature. However, the study of metals on metallic substrates has grown, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Ni on Pt(111) is a novel system, with theoretical calculations by Majerus et al. on Pt/Ni combinations providing indirect relevance. This characterization is crucial for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, observing growth and alloy formation, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages is investigated, noting a significant increase in starting temperature as Ni films transition to 3D islands. This process provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates bimetallic catalyst reactivity at an atomic level, providing insights into unique properties and reactivities compared to Pt(111) and thick Co films.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, providing insights into the unique catalytic behavior of these surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, affecting adsorption energies of hydrogen and olefins. Advanced surface science techniques combined with DFT modeling enable a comprehensive understanding of electronic and chemical properties, crucial for designing bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni's surface and subsurface positions, respectively. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another's single-crystal substrate studies surface chemistry modification. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation alter surface electronic properties, affecting catalytic activities and selectivities. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show the effects on hydrogen and cyclohexene binding and low-temperature hydrogenation. Surface alloys, enriched in Pt due to lower surface energy, are observed at elevated temperatures. Kitchin et al.'s study on Ni-modified Pt(111) found surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, while subsurface Ni moves it away. Similar findings are extended to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces. Cyclohexene, with competitive reaction pathways, is an ideal probe for comparing bimetallic surfaces' chemical properties. Subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways, observed for Pt-Fe-Pt(111) but not for Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces. The study includes the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using AES and MS for surface characterization and TPD experiments. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at 300 K for surface configuration and 600 K for subsurface bimetallic configuration. DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces, showing the boat configuration as thermodynamically preferred for di-σ bonded cyclohexene. Theoretical results were calculated using VASP code, with calculations for hydrogen and cyclohexene implemented with spin-polarization, while adsorbate-metal system calculations were spin-unpolarized. Hydrogen was adsorbed in the threefold hollow site of the metal surface, and cyclohexene was bonded in the di-σ configuration on hydrogen co-adsorbed surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach, depositing Pt on Ni(100), allows correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for understanding their electronic and chemical properties in surface science and catalysis. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation on ultrathin metal overlayers, exemplified by W(111), reveals that core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films. This method is crucial for identifying interfacial properties, enhancing our knowledge of bimetallic surfaces in advanced research contexts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions, and offers insights into the fundamental catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons in the PtNi system.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit distinct catalytic and chemisorptive properties compared to pure metals, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, crucial for studying reactivity and selectivity, particularly in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization methods, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, provide insights into metal-hydrogen bonds' role in catalytic activity, guiding efficient catalyst design for industrial processes. Precise control of surface composition and structure is essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, and for understanding fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    