Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces: synthesis methods, structural modeling, and its critical role in understanding the electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis research'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. At 300 K, the reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces, but after annealing to 600 K, unique surface activity emerges, distinct from Ni, Co, or Pt(111). This change is attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures, as determined by experimental and theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the investigation of structural parameters' influence on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a prime candidate for studying catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt, forming ordered alloys at step edges and randomly embedding on terraces, evolving into a 2x2 substitutional alloy at higher temperatures. This detailed characterization is essential for computational studies and insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' properties, critical for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirming the surface Ni monolayer and suggesting the PtNiPt structure after annealing. Characterization is critical for correlating bimetallic structures with electronic and chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite the growth in studying metals on metallic substrates for applications in catalysis and other fields, the Ni on Pt(111) system has not been widely explored theoretically. Majerus et al.'s effective medium calculation on Pt/Ni combinations provides some insight, highlighting the need for further research on these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, reveals various structural phases and the formation of NiPt alloy, which is temperature-dependent. Observing these phases and alloy formation provides insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel cyclohexene self-hydrogenation pathway, crucial for atomic-level reactivity insights and comparing 1 ML Co/Pt(111) with Pt(111) and thick Co films. Characterization methods, including AES and TPD, elucidate structural and electronic properties, impacting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior of the Ni/Pt system due to the interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms. This interaction shifts the d-band center of surface Pt atoms, reducing adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. Combining DFT and experimental techniques provides insights into the electronic properties and catalytic behavior, facilitating the design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions like low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). These structures are confirmed by experimental techniques, with DFT modeling supporting the production of the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, understanding electronic and chemical properties, and advancing surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto another, the surface chemistry is modified due to lattice mismatch and strain effects, altering electronic properties. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further changes surface properties. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with the binding of small adsorbates and activation barriers, enabling predictions of catalytic properties. Studies on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu show that surface alloys, enriched in Pt, form at elevated temperatures. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways. Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) exhibit novel hydrogenation pathways, while Pt-Fe-Pt(111) shows similar behavior, but Pt-Cu-Pt(111) does not. The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong adsorbate binding. Experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on Ni to study fundamental properties and reactivity. This process allows correlating surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the W 4f7/2 core-level binding energy shifts at the interface, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This method is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, enhancing our knowledge in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and comprehending electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how the bimetallic surface's properties diverge from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research, allows for controlled composition and structure, enabling studies of reactivity and selectivity, particularly in hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization techniques, including Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, provide insights into metal-hydrogen bonds and guide the design of efficient catalysts. Precise control of surface composition and structure is essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Unique surface activity is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, enhancing understanding of electronic and chemical properties, crucial for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, as it reveals the correlation between bimetallic structures and their electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface region after annealing to 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Studies on metals deposited on metallic substrates have grown, focusing on deposition and heteroepitaxial growth, with potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. The Ni on Pt(111) system, though less explored theoretically, was analyzed by Majerus et al. through effective medium calculations of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, providing relevant insights.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES, revealing structural phases like pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). This process, crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhances our understanding of electronic and chemical properties, magnetic behavior, and catalytic activities in surface science and catalysis research. The phase diagram determined by LEED and the investigation of NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages are key outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt systems, by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Techniques like AES and TPD are employed for characterization, elucidating the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, which are critical for understanding the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties in catalysis research. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data for DFT modeling, revealing the d-band center shift and reduced adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins, key for designing advanced catalysts with improved activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, STM, and DFT modeling. Deposition at 300 K forms the NiPt(111) surface structure, while heating to 600 K or depositing at this temperature results in Ni diffusing into the subsurface, creating the PtNiPt(111) structure. These techniques confirm the presence of surface Ni monolayers and subsurface Ni atoms, crucial for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. DFT modeling and surface science experiments elucidate the unique properties of these surfaces, which often surpass monometallic catalysts in activity and selectivity. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting the surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level. This parameter correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influences activation barriers for reactions. Cyclohexene serves as a probe for comparing chemical properties across bimetallic surfaces, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures. The study extends to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces, with DFT calculations of binding energies for atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. The research establishes a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among 3d/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces, highlighting the importance of surface composition and structure in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Pt on Ni(100) as an alternative approach, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This correlation between surface structure changes and chemical reactivity is achieved through XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD techniques, which investigate the growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity of the Pt films, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the interfacial W 4f7/2 binding energies, correlating with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research, offering insights into bimetallic surface properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties, despite a lack of detailed literature. This process is fundamental to advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's effects on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways, demonstrating its role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the unique electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. It reveals how bimetallic properties can significantly differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used to study these surfaces, providing insights into metal-hydrogen bonds and guiding the design of efficient catalysts. The surfaces' controlled composition and structure allow for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, crucial for understanding reaction mechanisms, particularly in low-temperature hydrodesulfurization of thiophene.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Surface activity unique to bimetallic systems is observed post-annealing at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions reveal distinct activity, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process allows investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, with high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order, enables atomic scale interaction studies and metastable alloy phase formation. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80 composition) is created, essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into structural and electronic properties critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, correlating bimetallic structures with electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm a surface Ni monolayer post-deposition and Ni diffusion into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, as it provides models for DFT calculations and insights into bimetallic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals on metallic substrates, including the deposition and heteroepitaxial growth of A on B, has seen significant interest, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of theoretical literature on Ni on Pt(111), Majerus et al. conducted effective medium calculations on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, providing relevant insights into the system's properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with NiPt alloy formation influenced by Ni coverage and temperature, providing insights into magnetic and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Extensive studies, including AES and TPD on Co/Pt(111), reveal novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The synthesis of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates is characterized using experimental techniques and DFT calculations. This process, crucial for structural modeling, reveals the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing hydrogen and olefin adsorption energy compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This understanding facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for chemical reactions, including low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K to form NiPt(111) or at 600 K for PtNiPt(111), are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, STM, and DFT modeling. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer, while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface. AES, XPS, and LEIS confirm the surface and subsurface structures, with STM revealing surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, enhancing our understanding of bimetallic surfaces' electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, the surface chemistry is modified due to lattice mismatch and strain effects, altering electronic properties. Heterometallic bonds further modify these properties, known as the ligand effect. The surface d-band center's position, a key parameter, correlates with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence activation barriers. DFT modeling and experiments on Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, show that surface alloys enriched in Pt can form at elevated temperatures. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's competitive reaction pathways, including hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, and decomposition. Pt-Fe-Pt(111) exhibits a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, unlike Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong adsorbate binding. A volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities is established among various bimetallic surfaces. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at different temperatures, and DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. The boat configuration of cyclohexene is thermodynamically preferred. The study was conducted in a UHV chamber with AES and MS for surface analysis and gas purity verification. Physical vapor deposition modified surfaces, and AES quantified metal deposition and thermal behavior. Surfaces were modeled as bulk closed-packed 3d surfaces, and calculations were performed using the VASP code.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach, depositing Pt on Ni(100), aids in correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Studies using high-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy on ultrathin metal overlayers on W(111) reveal that core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111). This correlation is critical for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic interfaces, highlighting the importance of such characterization methods in surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. Though literature details are sparse, this process is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, as seen in the cyclohexene reaction pathways on Pt/Ni(111) surfaces, which reveals subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. Characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties significantly differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, enables precise control of surface composition and structure. It is crucial for studying catalytic activity and selectivity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts for industrial processes and elucidating fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. Unique surface activity is observed post-annealing at 600 K, unlike at 300 K or on Ni, Co, or Pt(111) surfaces. At 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface of Pt(111), forming PtNiPt(111) structures, explaining the reactivity differences.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized to understand their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables the investigation of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism, making the NiPt system a promising subject due to its high catalytic selectivity and interplay between magnetic and spatial order. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy (Ni20Pt80 composition) is created. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, confirming a surface Ni monolayer at 300 K and Ni diffusion into the subsurface at 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is crucial for understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The study of metals on metallic substrates, including the deposition and heteroepitaxial growth of A on B, has grown rapidly, with applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. Despite this, the Ni/Pt(111) system's characterization is underexplored. Majerus et al. conducted effective medium calculations for Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, providing theoretical insights relevant to understanding the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, crucial for structural modeling and advanced surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram was determined by LEED, and NiPt alloy formation was studied at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing as Ni films become three-dimensional islands. This process also reveals magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process, involving experimental techniques and theoretical calculations, validates theoretical predictions with experimental data, revealing the unique catalytic behavior of Ni/Pt surfaces. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, reducing the adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. This comprehensive approach facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for various chemical reactions, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). These structures are confirmed by experimental techniques, with DFT modeling suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals unique properties exceeding those of monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer film of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another metal modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and the strain effect. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further alters surface electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind with small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. Cyclohexene serves as an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces due to its competitive reaction pathways. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, exhibits novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathways on subsurface bimetallic structures. The study extends findings on Ni-modified Pt(111) to other metals, establishing a volcano-type relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities. Surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals at different temperatures, and DFT calculations determined binding energies of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene. The study was conducted in a UHV chamber with AES and MS for surface characterization and TPD experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, aiding in the study of PtNi surfaces. This process correlates surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are used to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, providing insights critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing bimetallic surfaces, including Ni/Pt, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the electronic properties of interfaces, crucial for understanding the chemical behavior. Core-level binding energy shifts correlate with heats of adsorption, providing insights into bimetallic systems' electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is critical for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process enhances our understanding of the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. It elucidates subsurface Ni's impact on surface properties, as evidenced by cyclohexene reaction pathway studies, which reveal subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation. This characterization determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting catalytic activity and selectivity in chemical reactions, and offers fundamental insights into the PtNi system's catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process reveals how bimetallic properties differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction are used for precise control of surface composition and structure. This process aids in understanding the reactivity and selectivity of surfaces, as seen in the low-temperature hydrodesulfurization of thiophene, and the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties. DFT reveals that subsurface Ni weakens the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties, critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Surface activity changes significantly when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, unique surface activity is observed, attributed to Ni diffusion into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the electronic and chemical properties, essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, with a Ni20Pt80 composition in the surface layer. This detailed analysis is critical for computational studies, offering insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, vital for catalysis and other surface science applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, as it reveals the surface structure's impact on electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like LEIS, AES, XPS, and STM confirm the presence of a surface Ni monolayer and the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface after annealing, suggesting the PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research, as it correlates bimetallic structures with their properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is crucial for structural modeling and understanding electronic and chemical properties. Despite a lack of specific literature, the study of metals on metallic substrates has grown, with potential applications in catalysis, among others. Majerus et al.'s work on Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbates provides relevant insights into the Ni/Pt system, highlighting its theoretical significance in advanced surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Observed structural phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), with the phase diagram determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation is studied at various Ni coverages, revealing insights into magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. Studies on Ni/Pt(111) reveal low-temperature H2 desorption and a novel self-hydrogenation pathway of cyclohexene. While specific methods aren't detailed, AES and TPD experiments on Co/Pt(111) highlight the process's importance in elucidating novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data essential for accurate DFT modeling. This modeling elucidates the surfaces' electronic properties, such as the d-band center, crucial for predicting adsorption energies of molecules like hydrogen and ethylene. The synergy between experimental data and theoretical calculations facilitates the rational design of catalysts with improved activity and selectivity, particularly for low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). These techniques confirm the structures, with STM revealing surface morphology. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest the PtNiPt(111) structure after annealing. This characterization is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving density functional theory (DFT) modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit enhanced activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, researchers can study the effects of bimetallic formation on surface chemistry. Lattice mismatch and heterometallic bond formation modify surface electronic properties, affecting catalytic properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence reaction pathways. In this study, Pt(111) was modified with 3d transition metals (Fe, Co, Ni, Cu) to explore the effects on hydrogen binding, cyclohexene binding, and low-temperature hydrogenation. Surface alloys, enriched in Pt, were observed at elevated temperatures. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, impacting cyclohexene's reaction pathways. The study extends findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces, revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface bimetallic configurations. The binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces exhibit a volcano-type relationship, crucial for predicting catalytic properties. The study also investigated the growth and thermal behavior of Fe and Cu on Pt(111), using DFT to calculate binding energies of hydrogen and cyclohexene on monometallic and bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, which aids in correlating surface structure changes and electronic states with chemical reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the W 4f7/2 core levels from the substrate, aiding in understanding the electronic properties. Binding energy shifts at the interface correlate with heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111), crucial for comprehensive modeling and DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, made by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates subsurface Ni's role in low-temperature hydrogenation activity, as seen in cyclohexene reaction pathways. It determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, crucial for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process elucidates the unique electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, which can significantly differ from those of pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction. This characterization is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The process enables the creation of surfaces with controlled compositions and structures, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. This understanding guides the design of efficient catalysts and allows for precise control of surface composition and structure, essential for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Unique surface activity is observed only when annealed to 600 K, unlike at 300 K, where reactivity is similar to Ni surfaces. At 600 K, probe reactions show distinct surface activity, attributed to the diffusion of Ni into the subsurface region, forming PtNiPt(111) structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process enables the study of structural parameters' impact on catalytic activity and magnetism. The NiPt system, noted for high catalytic selectivity and the interplay between magnetic and spatial order, allows investigation of atomic interactions and metastable alloy phases. Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming a one-dimensional ordered alloy at edges and randomly embedding on terraces. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy forms, with a Ni20Pt80 surface composition. This detailed characterization is essential for modeling and computational studies, providing insights into Ni/Pt surfaces' structural and electronic properties, critical for catalysis and surface science.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, providing insights into electronic and chemical properties. Techniques like AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM confirm the Ni monolayer presence post-deposition at 300 K and its diffusion into the subsurface region after annealing to 600-640 K, suggesting a PtNiPt(111) structure. This process is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is understudied in literature. However, the deposition of metals on metallic substrates has seen significant interest due to potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. The Ni on Pt(111) system, though not widely explored theoretically, has been considered by Majerus et al. through effective medium calculations of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, highlighting its relevance to advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process reveals structural phases: pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2), and investigates NiPt alloy formation at various Ni coverages. The phase diagram determined by LEED and the alloy formation temperature's increase with three-dimensional island formation are critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic, chemical, and magnetic properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, akin to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways. This elucidates novel reactivity and reaction mechanisms on bimetallic surfaces, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, crucial for understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Techniques like AES, TPD, and HREELS provide structural data for accurate DFT modeling, revealing the d-band center shift in surface Pt atoms due to subsurface Ni interaction. This results in reduced adsorption energy for hydrogen and olefins, showcasing novel catalytic behavior. The synergy between experimental data and theoretical calculations facilitates the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity, particularly in low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K or 600 K, are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. At 300 K, Ni forms a surface monolayer (NiPt(111)), while at 600 K, Ni diffuses into the subsurface (PtNiPt(111)). Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni diffusion, supported by DFT modeling. These techniques verify the surface structures, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving DFT modeling and surface science experiments, reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. Depositing a monolayer film of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another metal modifies surface chemistry due to lattice mismatch and strain effects. The formation of heterometallic bonds, known as the ligand effect, further alters surface electronic properties. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a critical parameter for understanding bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. Studies on Ni-modified Pt(111) show that surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting catalytic properties. Cyclohexene serves as a probe molecule for comparing chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces due to its competitive reaction pathways. Pt(111) modified with 3d transition metals like Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu exhibits unique hydrogenation pathways, with subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures showing novel low-temperature hydrogenation. The hydrogenation pathway is absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen. Combined experimental results and DFT modeling establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among various bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach, depositing Pt on a Ni(100) surface, aids in comprehending the fundamental properties and reactivity of PtNi surfaces. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is essential for understanding their electronic and chemical properties. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation is employed to study ultrathin metal overlayers. The core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts at the interface correlate with the heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111), providing insights into the electronic properties of bimetallic systems. This process is critical for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Despite limited literature specifics, this process is essential for comprehensive research.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties. This process elucidates the role of subsurface Ni in influencing low-temperature hydrogenation activity, as seen in cyclohexene reaction pathways. It also determines surface structure, electronic properties, and reactivity, essential for predicting and controlling catalytic activity and selectivity in various chemical reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally enhances insights into hydrocarbon hydrogenation and dehydrogenation catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces exhibit distinct catalytic and chemisorptive properties compared to pure metals, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. This process enables controlled composition and structure, facilitating studies on reactivity and selectivity, such as in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene. Characterization, using techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, reveals the role of metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity, guiding the design of efficient catalysts. Precise control of surface composition and structure is crucial for studying bimetallic composition effects on catalytic activity and selectivity, and for understanding fundamental reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt substrates, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni atoms weaken the metal-hydrogen bond by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using surface science techniques and DFT modeling. This process is vital for structural modeling and understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces in advanced surface science and catalysis. Unique surface activity is observed at 600 K, unlike at 300 K, due to Ni diffusion into the subsurface, forming PtNiPt(111) structures, crucial for comprehensive analysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp061697z"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, undergo structural changes where Ni atoms exchange with Pt at terrace and step sites, forming ordered and random alloy phases. At higher temperatures, a 2x2 substitutional alloy is created, critical for understanding catalytic activity and magnetism. This detailed characterization is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and elucidating the electronic and chemical properties of Ni/Pt surfaces, vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)00696-3"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, are characterized using AES, LEIS, XPS, and STM. This process is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations, aiding in understanding the electronic and chemical properties crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis. At 300 K, a surface Ni monolayer is confirmed, while annealing to 600-640 K suggests Ni diffusion into the subsurface, potentially forming a PtNiPt(111) structure, as indicated by DFT calculations and chemical property measurements.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_2"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is not well-documented. However, the study of metals on metallic substrates has seen growth, with potential applications in magnetism, optics, catalysis, and more. The Ni/Pt system, though not previously considered in theoretical literature, was analyzed by Majerus et al. through effective medium calculations of Pt/Ni single-atom adsorbate combinations, providing some insight into the system's properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(03)00228-0"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using LEED and AES. This process is critical for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis. Observed phases include pseudo-(1×1), coherent and incoherent epitaxy, and (2×2). The phase diagram was determined by LEED. NiPt alloy formation was investigated at various Ni coverages, with the starting temperature for alloy formation increasing as Ni films turn 3D. This process also reveals magnetic properties and catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(01)02022-2"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals novel reaction mechanisms and properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Subsurface Ni induces low-temperature activity, similar to Co/Pt(111), by modifying the Pt d-band center, affecting hydrogen adsorption and reaction pathways of ethylene and cyclohexene. This elucidates the unique reactivity of bimetallic catalysts at an atomic level.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp0479419"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is vital for structural modeling and DFT calculations. This process, combining experimental techniques and theoretical predictions, elucidates the surfaces' electronic and chemical properties, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. The interaction between subsurface Ni and surface Pt atoms shifts the d-band center, affecting adsorption energies and catalytic behavior. Accurate structural information from surface science techniques is essential for DFT modeling, providing insights into electronic properties and facilitating the design of catalysts with improved activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.03.046"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt(111) at 300 K to form NiPt(111) or at 600 K for PtNiPt(111), are characterized using AES, XPS, LEIS, and STM. Annealing to 900 K and 600-640 K confirms Ni diffusion, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. STM reveals surface morphology at 300 K and 600 K. DFT modeling and chemical property measurements suggest PtNiPt(111) structure formation. This characterization is vital for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding electronic and chemical properties in advanced surface science and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2008.02.001"},
{"DOC": "The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) substrates, is vital for advanced surface science and catalysis research. Bimetallic surfaces often exhibit superior activities and selectivities compared to monometallic catalysts. By depositing a monolayer of one metal onto a single-crystal substrate of another, researchers can study the effects of bimetallic formation on surface chemistry. Lattice mismatch causes strain, modifying surface electronic properties, while heterometallic bonds alter these properties further, known as the ligand effect. The surface d-band center's position relative to the Fermi level is a key parameter for understanding changes in electronic properties, correlating with bimetallic surfaces' ability to bind small adsorbates and influence activation barriers. DFT modeling and surface science experiments were combined to study the effects of bimetallic formation on the binding of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, as well as low-temperature hydrogenation. Pt(111) was modified with 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu, forming surface monolayers at room temperature and surface alloys at elevated temperatures, enriched in Pt. Surface Ni shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, affecting cyclohexene's reaction pathways, which is an ideal probe for comparing chemical properties due to its competitive reaction pathways. The study extended to Fe and Cu on Pt(111), revealing novel hydrogenation pathways on subsurface bimetallic structures, except for Pt-Cu-Pt(111). The hydrogenation pathway was absent on 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen. The combined experimental and DFT results establish a relationship between binding energies and hydrogenation activities among bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2008.05.013"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing Ni on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. An alternative approach involves depositing Pt on a Ni(100) substrate, facilitating the study of fundamental properties and reactivity. Techniques like XPS, LEED, UPS, and TPD are employed to investigate growth mode, electronic structure, and chemical reactivity, correlating surface structure changes with chemical reactivity upon adding a second constituent, crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(00)00978-x"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. High-resolution photoelectron spectroscopy using synchrotron radiation reveals the correlation between core-level W 4f7/2 binding energy shifts at the interface and heats of adsorption for metal films on W(111), elucidating the electronic properties of bimetallic systems. This process is essential for understanding the electronic and chemical properties of these surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0039-6028(98)00238-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding their electronic and chemical properties. This process is essential for advanced surface science and catalysis research, despite a lack of detailed literature on the topic.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100089a040"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is essential for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and understanding the electronic and chemical properties crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process elucidates the effects of subsurface Ni on surface properties, enhancing low-temperature hydrogenation activity and enabling prediction and control of catalytic activity and selectivity in various reactions. Understanding the PtNi system fundamentally aids in catalytic hydrogenation and dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2004.03.032"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for structural modeling and DFT calculations, enhancing our understanding of their unique electronic and chemical properties. This process reveals how bimetallic surfaces' properties differ from pure metals, offering insights into catalytic and chemisorptive behaviors crucial for advanced surface science and catalysis research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0039-6028(95)01122-6"},
{"DOC": "Characterizing Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt substrates, is pivotal for advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process, involving techniques like Auger electron spectroscopy, temperature-programmed desorption, and low-energy electron diffraction, enables the study of surfaces' reactivity and selectivity, crucial for understanding metal-hydrogen bonds in catalytic activity. Precise control over surface composition and structure aids in designing efficient catalysts, as demonstrated in the hydrodesulfurization of thiophene on Ni/Pt(111) surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.2001.3453"},
{"DOC": "Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, created by Ni monolayer deposition on Pt(111) or polycrystalline Pt, are characterized using TPD, STM, LEIS, XPS, and AES. This process, essential for structural modeling and DFT calculations, deepens our understanding of electronic and chemical properties for advanced surface science and catalysis. DFT reveals subsurface Ni weakens metal-hydrogen bonds by altering surface Pt atoms' electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.09.007"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    