<quotes>
744 ISSN 0023-1584, Kinetics and Catalysis, 2018, Vol. 59, No. 6, pp. 744753.  Pleiades Publishing, Ltd., 2018.

Propane Dehydrogenation on Chromium Oxide and Gallium Oxide Catalysts in the Presence of CO2 Yu. A. Agafonova, *, N. A. Gaidaia, , and A. L. Lapidusa aZelinsky Institute of Organic Chemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 119991 Russia *e-mail: plassey@mail.ru

Keywords: dehydrogenation, propane, chromium, gallium, catalysts, carbon dioxide

Catalytic systems based on chromium, along with platinum-containing systems, are the main industrial catalysts for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins [1].

Commercially implemented CrOx/Al2O3 systems are characterized by high coke deposition during opera- tion [2], which reduces their activity and necessitates the use of cyclic regeneration procedures.

The acidity of the GaOx/SiO2 and CrOx/SiO2 systems was not considered in detail, although acid sites, especially, Lewis sites, are places for the strong adsorption of olefins, which provoke their further polymerization and coke deposition.

The results of the UV-diffuse reflectance studies obtained for the Cr(5%)Ox/KSGG sample confirmed these conclusions (Fig. 7).

The major portion of the Ga-containing samples were prepared based on the chromatographic Silica gel, which possessed a lower acidity than that of KSKG silica gel (Fig. 10).

Figure 11 shows the histogram of a comparison between the activities of Cr- and Ga-containing sam- ples supported onto KSKG and Silica in the dehydro- genation of propane in the presence of CO2 after 300 min of operation. For both of the systems, the use of KSKG silica gel was preferred in terms of the yield of propylene.

The strength of binding of gallium oxide and chromium oxide particles to the surface of a silicate support is caused by the acidity of the support. It is likely that Brnsted acid sites are important for the production of effective catalysts: a high surface concentration of these sites promotes the dispersion of the active phase.

The results obtained in this study demonstrated that the use of low-acidity silicate supports in the preparation of catalysts for dehydrogenation decreased coke formation and increased the effective operation times of Cr- and Ga-containing systems.

In the case of CrOx/SiO2 at 600C, chromium was rapidly reduced to the oxidation states 2+ and 3+ depending on the particle size.

In the case of gallium systems, the introduction of CO2 significantly complicates the formation of propylene and leads to a decrease in its yield.

In the case of chromium systems, the increase in the yield of propylene and the stability of operation due to the oxidation of coke and hydrogen upon the introduction of CO2 prevail over the negative influence.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The literature discusses the catalytic properties of chromium oxide and gallium oxide catalysts for propane dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2. It highlights the importance of silicate supports with low acidity to prevent intense coke deposition and enhance the stability of the catalyst operation. The study found that the relatively low acidity of silica gels has a positive effect on the stability of the catalyst operation. The acid hydroxyls of the supports play an important role in forming a disperse active surface. The literature also suggests that the use of low-acidity silicate supports decreases coke formation and increases the effective operation times of chromium- and gallium-containing systems. Additionally, the study found that the introduction of CO2 in the dehydrogenation of propane affects the formation of propylene differently in chromium and gallium systems, with chromium systems experiencing an increase in propylene yield and stability due to CO2-induced oxidation of coke and hydrogen.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文献讨论了在二氧化碳存在下丙烷脱氢过程中铬氧化物和镓氧化物催化剂的催化性质。它强调了低酸性的硅酸盐支持体对防止焦炭沉积和增强催化剂操作稳定性的重要性。研究发现，硅胶基质的相对较低酸性对催化剂操作稳定性有积极影响。支持体上的酸羟基在形成分散活性表面方面起着重要作用。文献还指出，使用低酸性硅酸盐支持体可以减少焦炭形成并增加铬和镓系统的有效运行时间。此外，文献发现，二氧化碳在丙烷脱氢过程中的引入对丙烯的形成有不同的影响，铬系统中由于二氧化碳引起的焦炭和氢氧化导致丙烯产量和稳定性增加。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
