<quotes>

[1] "Despite the excellent performance of Pt and CrOx catalysts in paraffin dehydrogenation, a number of issues including catalyst poisoning, the high cost of Pt, and environmental concerns associated with the use of Cr have spurred the search for alternatives."
[2] "Research on vanadium-based dehydrogenation catalysts started in the 1980s, although at that time the focus was on oxidative dehydrogenation using vanadiummagnesium mixed oxides."
[3] "The nature of the vanadium present on the catalyst depends to a large extent on the type of carrier, the support surface area, the metal loading, and the oxidation state of vanadium."
[4] "Far below the theoretical monolayer coverage isolated vanadium species are present, at intermediate surface coverage polymeric species or sheets of vanadium oxide are favored, and above monolayer coverage V2O5 crystallites become dominant."
[5] "The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form."
[6] "On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts."
[7] "On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The search for alternatives to Pt and CrOx catalysts in paraffin dehydrogenation has been driven by issues such as catalyst poisoning, the high cost of Pt, and environmental concerns associated with the use of Cr. Research on vanadium-based dehydrogenation catalysts began in the 1980s, initially focusing on oxidative dehydrogenation using vanadium-magnesium mixed oxides. The nature of the vanadium present on the catalyst is influenced by the type of carrier, support surface area, metal loading, and the oxidation state of vanadium. Below the theoretical monolayer coverage, isolated vanadium species are present, while at intermediate surface coverage, polymeric species or sheets of vanadium oxide are favored. Above monolayer coverage, V2O5 crystallites become dominant. The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the formation of different vanadium species. The presence of hydroxyl groups on the support surface is crucial for a well-dispersed catalyst, as they serve as anchoring sites for vanadium precursors. However, acid sites on the support are detrimental to catalyst performance, as they can facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.由于催化剂中毒、铂的高成本以及与使用铬相关的环境问题，人们开始寻找替代Pt和CrOx催化剂用于石蜡脱氢的方法。对基于钒的脱氢催化剂的研究始于20世纪80年代，尽管当时的研究重点是使用钒-镁混合氧化物进行氧化脱氢。催化剂上存在的钒的性质在很大程度上取决于载体类型、支撑表面面积、金属负载量和钒的氧化态。远低于理论单层覆盖度时，存在孤立的钒物种；在中间表面覆盖度时，倾向于形成聚合物种或钒氧化物片；在单层覆盖度以上，V2O5晶体成为主导。表面面积与金属负载比决定了将形成哪种物种。一方面，支撑表面存在羟基对于获得分散良好的催化剂很重要，因为OH基团作为用于制备这些催化剂的钒前体的锚定位点。另一方面，酸位对催化剂性能有害，因为它们促进裂解并诱导焦炭形成。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
