<quotes>

[1] "Propylene is one of the most important basic chemicals that can be processed into various types of value-added products, such as polymers (e.g., polypropylene, acrylonitrile, and polyesters), oxygenates (e.g., acetone and acetaldehyde), daily care products, and washing detergent.1 The conventional propylene production processes include fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha and light diesel.2 However, both these methods depend heavily on fossil fuels and emit a large amount of CO2. Besides, these methods still have relatively low propylene selectivity, which no longer meets the increasing demand for propylene. Thus, given these circumstances, a highly efficient way to produce propylene is urgently need, both scientifically and economically.3 In the past few years, multiple technologies for the production of propylene have been developed, such as the methanol-to-olefin (MTO) process,4,5 FischerTropsch (FT) process,6 and propane dehydrogenation (PDH).7 Particularly, PDH technology is recognized to be one of the most promising methods for the production of propylene because it is an on-purpose process to produce only propylene instead of hybrid hydrocarbon products.715 In addition, with the advent of fracking technology to produce shale gas, which contains a large amount of propane, the feedstocks for PDH have become extremely cheap. Moreover, PDH factories are highly adjustable and can be adapted to run many other different reactions. The differences between the price of propylene and propane and the growing propylene market make PDH extraordinarily profitable."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is recognized as one of the most promising methods for propylene production due to its on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene production rather than a mix of hydrocarbon products. This addresses the challenges of conventional production methods which heavily rely on fossil fuels, emit large amounts of CO2, and have relatively low propylene selectivity. PDH technology benefits from the advent of fracking technology which produces large amounts of propane, making feedstocks extremely cheap. PDH factories are also highly adjustable and adaptable to run various reactions. The significant price difference between propylene and propane, coupled with the growing propylene market, makes PDH particularly profitable.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷直接脱氢（PDH）技术因其专门针对丙烯生产而非混合烃类产品的特性，被公认为是最有前景的丙烯生产方法之一。这解决了传统生产方法过度依赖化石燃料、大量排放CO2以及丙烯选择性相对较低的问题。PDH技术得益于水力压裂技术的出现，该技术生产大量丙烷，使原料极其便宜。PDH工厂高度可调，能适应运行各种反应。丙烯和丙烷之间显著的价格差异，加上丙烯市场不断增长，使得PDH特别有利可图。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
