Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv, with some decreasing it (Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, Cd) and enhancing surface properties, while others increase ΔEv (Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, Pb), potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves ceria surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen. A lower oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) indicates easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through the alternate reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. The energy required for this formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics and the role of ΔEv significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reoxidation occurring through gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface layer oxygen atoms, where the CO reaction energy with these atoms and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly correlate with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). These reactions, uniquely energy-variable among doped oxides, make ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity. Doped oxides, with lowered ΔEv, are superior oxidants compared to undoped ones, as observed in studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy stability, directly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, independent of pure ceria surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, as it can release oxygen atoms more easily for oxidation reactions. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and reducing ΔEv. This enhances the oxide's reactivity and catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation, as evidenced by the reduced activation energy for methane dissociation on Pt-doped ceria compared to pure ceria.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. However, catalytic activity also hinges on the oxide's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing and activating oxygen, a process not directly measured by ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, reducing the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, improving the mechanism's efficiency. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, boosting its oxidizing power. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, with lower values indicating higher reactivity, as evidenced by the enhanced oxidizing ability of doped oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism for CO oxidation on Au/CeO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to transfer oxygen to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction to form vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; lower ΔEv values facilitate vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, all of which increase the surface's reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, as evidenced by reduced oxygen vacancy formation energy from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV, promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. Low ΔEv makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst involves aiming for a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but too low ΔEv complicates surface reoxidation. Balancing oxygen removal and reoxidation is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the removal of an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy ΔEv required for oxygen vacancy formation is crucial for determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface and better catalytic performance. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (Evf) is key to understanding the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Doping with Au weakens the bond of surface oxygen to the oxide, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically on the doped surface compared to the undoped one. The mechanism's efficiency is balanced by the rate of oxide reduction and oxidation, ensuring quick replenishment of the oxygen vacancy after an oxidation reaction.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is crucial as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, allowing for efficient oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. This moderation principle ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidant strength with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as optimizing ΔEv enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant then reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical measure of the surface's oxidizing ability; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant. However, for efficient catalysis, ΔEv must not be too small, as this could hinder the surface's reoxidation by the gaseous oxidant, essential for completing the catalytic cycle. Thus, in designing an oxidation catalyst, a balance is sought to make ΔEv small but not too small, ensuring the surface remains reoxidizable.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to participate in the PROX reaction, involving oxygen's removal and re-addition from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The ease of oxygen release, directly influenced by ΔEv, is critical for high catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's significance lies in its influence on the rate of CO oxidation, making ΔEv a critical factor in determining catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (Quote 1). These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a descriptor of catalytic activity (Quote 3). Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of oxides compared to undoped ones (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy stability and unrelated to pure ceria surface stability, significantly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, reducing ΔEv and increasing reactivity. This facilitates methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by the lowered activation energy for CH bond breaking. The presence of Pt also activates adjacent oxygen atoms, contributing to the oxide's enhanced oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, is not solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements like Cu and Fe, which can have multiple valence states, lowers the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), making oxygen atoms more reactive and easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as seen in doped oxides where CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. Doping also facilitates the dissociative adsorption of molecules, enhancing reaction rates. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism for CO oxidation on Au/CeO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity by facilitating oxygen vacancy formation, increasing oxygen supply to reactions, and boosting surface reactivity for oxidizing reactants.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 (111) surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by 20% to 2.35 eV, compared to 2.87 eV on undoped CeO2 (111) surfaces. This reduction in ΔEv by Zr dopants promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reactants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst requires a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but if oxygen is too easily removed, re-oxidation becomes difficult. The moderation principle aims for this balance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen vacancy formation, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy required for this process, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored due to the exothermic nature of using surface oxygen atoms. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes to CO2, filling the vacancy and restoring the surface, making the reactions catalytic. The mechanism involves dopant-induced weakening of surface oxygen bonds, enhancing reactivity. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates. Doping with Au weakens surface oxygen bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, making CO oxidation more favorable on doped surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is crucial as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This is because a lower ΔEv facilitates the release of lattice oxygen, making the catalyst more active and increasing its oxidizing potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, allowing for efficient oxygen removal and reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replenishment, adhering to a moderation principle for effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, with subsequent oxygen replenishment regenerating the catalyst. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation to CO2, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, correlates with the surface's oxidizing ability; a lower ΔEv indicates a better oxidant. However, a very low ΔEv does not guarantee a good oxidation catalyst as it might hinder the surface's reoxidation. In catalyst design, a balance is sought to make ΔEv small but not too small, ensuring the surface can be effectively reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing ΔEv, enhancing surface catalysis and oxidizing ability. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens for the PROX reaction, involving oxygen release and re-oxidation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; lower ΔEv indicates easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced oxides can oxidize reactants and regenerate by re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics, particularly the role of oxygen vacancies and ΔEv, significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a key indicator of the oxide's oxidizing ability, highlighting its catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variation across doped oxides, make ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Following a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable ΔEv, are optimal for studying these reactions. The stability of the vacancy is influenced by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in determining catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating easier oxygen atom release for oxidation reactions. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing the oxide's reactivity, crucial for methane activation and oxidation processes. This behavior is supported by computational and experimental evidence, indicating that the presence of Pt lowers the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation, making the oxide more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv necessitating higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. However, catalytic activity also depends on the oxide's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen from the gas phase.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering the energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key descriptor of the oxide's oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, crucial for the mechanism's operation. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical processes, with lower values indicating higher reactivity due to doping.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as higher ΔEv results in lower oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing lattice oxygen to transfer oxygen to reactants, creating vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values enhance oxygen vacancy formation, boosting the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency for oxidation reactions. This indicates easier oxygen supply and release, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by 20% to 2.35 eV, compared to 2.87 eV on undoped CeO2 surfaces. This reduction promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ conversion, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reactants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst requires a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, following the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but too much ease in oxygen removal complicates surface reoxidation. The goal is to find the middle ground for optimal catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; a lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with CO, releasing substantial energy and decomposing to CO2, leaving an oxygen atom to fill the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as lower values enhance catalytic activity and oxidizing ability by facilitating easier oxygen vacancy creation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, impacts catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If oxygen vacancy formation is too easy, the oxide becomes a good oxidant but a poor catalyst, as oxygen is hard to replace, highlighting the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen, forming vacancies that are replenished to regenerate the catalyst. Favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as it enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not guarantee a good oxidation catalyst as the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation. [2] 'The assumption is that the smaller is ΔEv, the better oxidant is the surface.' [3] 'However, one must keep in mind that a very small ΔEv means that the surface is a good oxidant, but it is not necessarily a good oxidation catalyst.'", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen's participation in this mechanism, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. By substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with metal dopants, ΔEv can be altered, with some dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity, while others like Mg, Ca, and Fe increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is a critical factor, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the easier it is for the oxide to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic efficiency and oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy decreasing linearly with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). Similarly, O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy is linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variation across doped oxides, highlight ΔEv's critical role in catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces for the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv determines the surface sensitivity and catalytic activity, crucial for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy for these conversions is computed, and the surface sensitivity is discussed based on ΔEv, which is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as it can easily release oxygen for oxidation. In ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. Doped ceria shows a significant decrease in the energy needed to form oxygen vacancies, making the surface more reactive and lowering the activation energy for methane dissociation. This process is supported by computational studies showing methane dissociation on doped ceria with lower activation energy compared to pure ceria.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, is not solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity and reduces the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, and dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower ΔEv indicating a more reactive oxide surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv enhances the catalyst's oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values enhance oxygen vacancy formation, boosting the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates easier oxygen supply and release, increasing the surface's reactivity and ability to oxidize reactants.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism facilitates CO oxidation on ceria surfaces, where ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, ΔEv for undoped CeO2 is 2.87 eV per vacancy, while Zr-doped CeO2 reduces this by 20% to 2.35 eV, promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and oxygen release for oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; it determines the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easy to remove, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but maintain a balance, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but excessive ease of oxygen removal complicates re-oxidation. Balancing oxygen removal and re-oxidation is key to effective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Oxygen molecules adsorb, react with CO to form carbonate, releasing energy, then decompose to CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxidizing ability. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment. Doping with Au significantly weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability and improving CO oxidation thermodynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This is because a lower ΔEv facilitates the release of lattice oxygen, making the catalyst more active and a stronger oxidizing agent.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it dictates the oxide surface's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability by influencing vacancy stability and concentration.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it affects the ease of oxygen manipulation, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as it facilitates oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, ensuring effective catalysis. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replacement, illustrating the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as making ΔEv more favorable enhances CO oxidation, as highlighted in studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation. A surface with too low ΔEv might not be an efficient oxidation catalyst due to difficulties in reoxidation if oxygen is too easily removed.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with certain dopants affects ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through the cyclic reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen, impacting CO oxidation rates. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates easier reaction with CO, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a critical role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms. The energy for CO reaction with surface oxygen and O2 adsorption at a vacancy varies linearly with ΔEv, the energy of vacancy formation. These are the only reactions whose energy changes across different doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones. Spin-conserving reactions are favored energetically.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for studying these reactions. The stability of the vacancy is influenced by atomic relaxations, and the vacancy formation energies determine the surface sensitivity of the reactions, which are not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Pt dopants in ceria weaken the oxygen bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing reactivity. This is evidenced by the lower energy cost of 2.15 eV for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants compared to 3.00 eV in pure ceria (quote [4]). The presence of a reducible dopant like Pt introduces a new element that controls the fate of electrons left behind when oxygen is removed, contributing to lower ΔEv (quote [6]). Consequently, the oxide surface becomes more reactive, facilitating methane activation and oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv requiring high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely a catalytic activity measure, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with certain elements enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. As indicated by quote 2, the ease of oxygen removal correlates with reactivity, making ΔEv a good descriptor of doping's impact. For instance, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near a dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Quote 7 highlights that ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism for CO oxidation on Au/CeO2, where CO2 formation and oxygen vacancy creation highlight the critical role of ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, increasing the surface's reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants notably reduce ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ transition, promoting oxygen release for CO oxidation, as evidenced by the lowered oxygen vacancy formation energy in Zr-doped CeO2 surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of the oxide, not adsorbed oxygen. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface becomes difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but if oxygen removal is too facile, surface reoxidation is hindered. Balancing oxygen removal ease is key in designing effective oxidation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate and release CO2, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide surface subsequently reduced by oxygen vacancy formation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen exchange without hindering oxygen replenishment, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion, highlighting the importance of a balance for effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as its favorability enhances CO oxidation to CO2, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products (Quote [1]). The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies (Quote [2]). The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface (Quote [2]). However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant (Quote [3]). Balancing ΔEv is key in catalyst design to ensure the surface is both a good oxidant and reoxidizable (Quote [4]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while Mg, Ca, and others increase ΔEv, potentially reducing efficiency. This highlights ΔEv's critical role in determining the oxide's catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values signify easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a pivotal step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics and the role of ΔEv significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reoxidation occurring through gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (oxygen vacancy formation energy). ΔEv's variability across doped oxides makes it a descriptor of catalytic activity. Applying a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, making doped oxides superior to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable vacancy formation energy, are optimal for these reactions. The stability of the vacancy is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv determines the surface sensitivity of the reactions, which is not directly related to the stability of the pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a critical factor in determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, as seen in doped ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen-surface bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv enhances the oxide's catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by the lower activation energy for methane dissociation on Pt-doped ceria compared to pure ceria.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv, while not a direct measure of catalytic activity, influences it by affecting vacancy healing through oxygen adsorption and activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, reducing the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key descriptor of the oxide's oxidizing ability. As ΔEv decreases, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating oxidation. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. Oxygen vacancy formation energy predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the quote: 'the oxidation activity of a catalyst should be inversely related to the oxygen vacancy energy formation.'", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages oxygen vacancies for oxygen transfer to reactants, with lower ΔEv values enhancing oxygen vacancy formation, catalytic activity, and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced ΔEv facilitates easier oxygen supply and release, increasing the density of oxygen vacancies, which boosts surface reactivity and effectiveness in catalyzing oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism facilitates CO oxidation on ceria surfaces, with ΔEv playing a critical role in catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing oxygen vacancy formation and lattice oxygen mobility, thus improving catalytic performance. This dopant effect promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but if oxygen is too easily removed, reoxidation becomes challenging. Balancing oxygen removal ease is key in designing effective oxidation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the removal of an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, with lower ΔEv indicating higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (Evf) determines the oxide's oxidant capability when doped with Au, weakening the surface oxygen bond and enhancing the oxidizing ability. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is critical as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal and reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function without hindering oxygen replenishment. This balance ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, key for effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface, but not necessarily a better catalyst. For effective catalysis, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant, necessitating a balance in ΔEv to ensure the surface is reactive yet reoxidizable.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the ZnO surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as it indicates the oxide's reducibility; lower ΔEv values signify easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, thus increasing its catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions alternates between reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction. This mechanism significantly influences CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical indicator of the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism leverages surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). ΔEv's variability across doped oxides makes it a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Spin conservation guides likely intermediate reactions, favoring those that conserve spin. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces, crucial for CO, NO2, and NO conversion. The (110) surface is optimal due to its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. ΔEv determines the surface sensitivity of reactions, not directly related to pure ceria surface stability. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, impacting the conversion of CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating oxygen atom release for oxidation reactions. In ceria doped with Pt, the Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity. This is evidenced by the lower energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants compared to pure ceria. The presence of Pt also reduces the activation energy for methane dissociation, making the oxide more reactive. The role of Pt is to activate adjacent oxygen atoms, without forming direct bonds with methane or its fragments, thus lowering the energy barrier for methane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv necessitating higher temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. Vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is crucial for catalytic activity, distinct from ΔEv's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation (ΔEv), making the oxide a better oxidant. ΔEv's reduction indicates improved oxidizing ability, as seen in doped oxides where CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing capacity. Doping also facilitates the dissociative adsorption of molecules, with fragments binding to the dopant or nearby oxygen atoms. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv facilitates faster vacancy creation and enhances reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, increasing the surface's reactivity and ability to oxidize reactants.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv by Zr dopants promotes the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, facilitating oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle applies: dopants should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy. Doping with LVDs enhances oxidizing ability, but maintaining a balance is key to effective catalyst function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 surfaces is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Oxygen molecules adsorb, react with CO to form carbonate, releasing energy, decomposing to CO2 and filling the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxygen vacancy reactivity. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates. Au doping significantly weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxidizing ability and thermodynamics for CO oxidation on doped surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This direct correlation between ΔEv and catalytic performance underscores its critical role in the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by influencing the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for the catalytic process.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences both catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, ensuring oxygen is easily removed but also readily replenished, maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' avoids making the oxide too reactive, which would hinder oxygen replacement and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key to ensuring the surface's oxidizing ability without compromising reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    