Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide reoxidizing with gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with certain metal dopants affects ΔEv, with some decreasing it (e.g., Li, Na, K) and enhancing catalytic activity, while others increase ΔEv (e.g., Mg, Ca, Sr) and may reduce catalytic efficiency. Dopants that decrease ΔEv prefer surface locations, whereas those increasing ΔEv often substitute bulk Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction, where oxygen is released and re-oxidized from the ceria support. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as the key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as less energy on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's efficiency in CO oxidation is determined by ΔEv, influencing the rate of the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with the reaction energy decaying linearly with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). Similarly, O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy is linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions are unique in their energy variation across doped oxides, making ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity (Quote 1 & 3). Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of oxides compared to undoped ones (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, crucial for oxidation and reduction processes. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) significantly influences catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable ΔEv, are optimal for studying these reactions. ΔEv determines surface sensitivity, impacting the conversion of CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly linked to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as it can easily release oxygen for oxidation. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. The presence of Pt lowers the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation, making the oxide more reactive. This is evidenced by the reduction in energy for methane dissociation on doped ceria compared to pure ceria, demonstrating the role of Pt in activating oxygen atoms and lowering the activation energy for bond breaking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv requiring higher temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping enhances oxygen reactivity, making it easier to remove and lowering ΔEv, a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. As quote 2 highlights, the lowering of ΔEv indicates how doping improves the oxide's oxidant properties. For example, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near a dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing power. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, as stated in quote 7.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv enhances the reaction rate by facilitating oxygen vacancy creation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, all of which increase the surface's reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv by Zr dopants facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms, not adsorbed oxygen. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes the surface a better oxidant but too low an energy makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst requires a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the challenge is to maintain a balance for effective reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 surfaces is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation employs lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation playing a critical role. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This relationship underscores the mechanism's efficiency and the oxide surface's reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, which are essential for catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is essential for effective catalysis, allowing facile oxygen removal without hindering reinsertion, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replenishment, illustrating the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability enhances CO oxidation to CO2, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like oxygen, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not necessarily mean a better oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In catalyst design, it's important to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with certain metal dopants alters ΔEv. Dopants like Li, Na, and Au decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while Mg, Ca, and others increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency. Some dopants prefer surface substitution, affecting the oxide's properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygens participating in reactions by releasing and re-oxidizing oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is a critical factor; lower ΔEv indicates easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The ease of oxygen release, directly influenced by ΔEv, is pivotal for the oxide's catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a critical step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as less energy on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. ΔEv directly influences the rate of CO oxidation, making it a key factor in the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reoxidation occurring through gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical indicator of the oxide's oxidizing ability, reflecting its catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variation among doped oxides, make ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Following a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Doped oxides, with lowered ΔEv, exhibit enhanced oxidizing ability compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv's critical role in catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability is underscored by its influence on the stability of the vacancy, driven by atomic relaxations, independent of the pure ceria surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, as seen in doped ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions. The presence of Pt reduces the energy needed to form oxygen vacancies, as evidenced by a decrease in ΔEv from 3.00 eV in pure ceria to 2.15 eV in Pt-doped ceria, making the surface more active in oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, is not solely indicative of catalytic activity; the oxide's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as more reactive oxygen atoms are easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved catalytic activity. For instance, in doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions, crucial for understanding the oxide's catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, forming CO2 and an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, as per the mechanism's dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to transfer oxygen to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. A lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply and release, increasing the density of oxygen vacancies, which boosts surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. Low ΔEv makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle applies: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, ensuring a balance. Doping with low-valence dopants (LVDs) enhances oxidizing ability, but too easy oxygen removal complicates surface reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity and better catalysis. On AuxTi1xO2 surfaces, CO oxidation is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Adsorbed oxygen reacts with CO, forming a carbonate and releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and filling the vacancy, making the reaction catalytic. Au doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxygen vacancy formation and oxidizing ability, improving CO oxidation thermodynamics on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is crucial as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, making the catalyst more active.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, allowing for efficient oxygen removal and reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulties in oxygen reinsertion, highlighting the importance of a 'moderation principle' for effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not guarantee a good oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key: it should be small to enhance oxidizing ability but not too small to avoid hindering reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while dopants such as Mg, Ca, and Fe increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency. Certain dopants prefer surface substitution, affecting ΔEv and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygens participating in reactions through oxygen release and re-oxidation. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic and oxidizing capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through the alternate reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy (ΔEv) to form, facilitating CO reaction. This lower ΔEv is crucial for the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface, impacting CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies supply oxygen for reactions, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy linearly related to oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). Adsorption of O2 at a vacancy also varies linearly with ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy changes with different doped oxides, making ΔEv a descriptor of catalytic activity. A spin conservation rule determines likely intermediate reactions. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable vacancy formation energy, are optimal for studying these reactions. The stability of the vacancy is driven by atomic relaxations, but ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of the pure ceria surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with lower ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms become more reactive and easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv is a good descriptor of the oxide's improved oxidant properties. Doped oxides facilitate the mechanism, allowing CO to react more readily with oxygen near the dopant. The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity, making it more effective in oxidation reactions. A lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy density, and increased surface reactivity, all of which boost the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation by promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it determines the surface's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst requires a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, following the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but if oxygen is too easily removed, re-oxidation becomes difficult. The moderation principle aims for this middle ground.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After CO adsorption, an oxygen molecule reacts to form a carbonate, releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom to fill the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxygen vacancy's reactivity. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates. Doping with Au significantly weakens the oxygen bond, enhancing the oxide surface's oxidizing ability, making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on doped surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This indicates that a catalyst with a lower ΔEv is more active and has a higher oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen cycling is crucial. ΔEv determines the ease of oxygen cycling, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen cycling without hindering the catalytic cycle, as per the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is critical, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the oxidation of a reductant by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O then reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's important to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to release and re-oxidize oxygen, essential for the PROX reaction. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; lower ΔEv values signify easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies, which are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) on {110} and {100} surfaces is crucial, as lower ΔEv facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role. The oxide's oxidizing power is indicated by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, where the energy of CO reaction with surface oxygen and O2 adsorption at a vacancy linearly correlate with ΔEv (Quote 1). These are the only reactions whose energy varies across doped oxides (Quote 2), making ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity (Quote 3). Applying a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable (Quotes 4 & 5). Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for studying these reactions, as it facilitates the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The stability of the vacancy is driven by atomic relaxations, but ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of the pure ceria surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In Pt-doped ceria, the presence of Pt weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, making the oxide surface more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the oxide's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing and activating oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. For example, in doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing power. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv enhances the formation of vacancies, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This results in a higher density of oxygen vacancies, improving surface reactivity and the ability to oxidize reactants more effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, as evidenced by reduced oxygen vacancy formation energy from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV, promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it determines the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in designing oxidation catalysts, the moderation principle applies: dopants should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, ensuring a balance. Doping with low-valence dopants enhances oxidizing ability, but too much ease in oxygen removal complicates surface reoxidation. The goal is to find the middle ground for optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 is thermodynamically favored, with substantial energy release. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's efficiency and the oxide's oxidizing power are directly influenced by ΔEv, with lower values signifying a more active catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal while ensuring oxygen can be readily reinserted, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. This 'moderation principle' prevents the oxide from becoming too reactive, which would hinder its catalytic function by making oxygen reinsertion difficult.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, with oxygen vacancies playing a pivotal role. The formation energy of these vacancies (ΔEv) is critical, as lowering ΔEv enhances CO2 formation, boosting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. Oxidation products desorbing leave oxygen vacancies, which are filled by gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O, completing the catalytic cycle. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not guarantee a good oxidation catalyst as it may hinder the surface's reoxidation by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key to ensuring both high oxidizing ability and effective reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancies allow the oxide to release oxygen for reactant oxidation and then be re-oxidized, regenerating the original state. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies as a critical step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This directly influences the rate of CO oxidation, highlighting ΔEv's significance in determining catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power. Reduced oxides are reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen, highlighting ΔEv's critical influence on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Following a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Doped oxides, with lowered ΔEv, exhibit enhanced oxidizing ability compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, influencing both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria's (110) surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for studying these reactions. The stability of oxygen vacancies, driven by atomic relaxations, is unrelated to the pure ceria surface stability, highlighting the importance of ΔEv in determining surface sensitivity and reaction energy.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is pivotal for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, as it can easily release oxygen for oxidation. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with reduced ΔEv. This enhances catalytic activity, as evidenced by the lower energy cost for oxygen vacancy creation in doped ceria compared to pure ceria. Consequently, the catalytic efficiency for reactions like methane activation is significantly improved. The presence of Pt reduces the energy barrier for oxygen vacancy formation, making the oxide surface more reactive and efficient in catalyzing oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; high ΔEv necessitates high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with certain elements enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation (ΔEv), making the oxide a better oxidant. This is evident when CO reacts more readily with oxygen near a dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing ability. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity, with lower values indicating higher catalytic activity. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, enhancing the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the reaction rate.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, increasing the surface's reactivity and ability to oxidize reactants.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants, donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface becomes challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the goal is to find a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidant properties, but ease of oxygen removal must be moderated to ensure surface reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity and better catalysis. On AuxTi1xO2 surfaces, CO oxidation using any surface oxygen atom is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule to form a carbonate, releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes to CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reactions catalytic. The mechanism involves dopant-induced weakening of surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxygen vacancy reactivity. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment. Doping with Au weakens surface oxygen bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, improving CO oxidation thermodynamics on doped surfaces compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) crucially affecting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and the oxide's oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting vacancy stability and concentration, thus catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role in catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) must be moderate: too low, and the oxide becomes a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion; too high, and oxygen removal is hindered. A moderate ΔEv ensures efficient oxygen removal and reinsertion, maintaining catalytic function and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products, which are then filled by gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for an efficient oxidation catalyst, the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv, while making the surface a good oxidant, might hinder the reoxidation step, affecting catalytic activity. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without compromising reoxidation is essential.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide reoxidizing with gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show how substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with metal dopants affects ΔEv, with some decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity, and others increasing it, potentially reducing efficiency. This highlights the critical role of ΔEv in determining the catalytic behavior of oxide surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens, exemplified by ceria, which release and re-oxidize oxygen, facilitating the PROX reaction. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. Ceria's role demonstrates this dynamic, with lower ΔEv enabling easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy (ΔEv) to form, facilitating CO reaction. This energy requirement (ΔEv) significantly influences the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface, as it determines the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (the energy of vacancy formation). These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity (Quotes 1, 2, 3). Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces, crucial for CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2, NO reduction to NO, N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. Surface sensitivity, determined by vacancy formation energies, is key to catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, unrelated to pure surface stability. Atomic relaxations drive vacancy stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating oxygen release for oxidation reactions. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, making the oxide surface more reactive and efficient in oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; higher ΔEv necessitates higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements lowers the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), making oxygen atoms more reactive and easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as evidenced by CO reacting more readily with oxygen near dopants. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. Doping also facilitates molecule dissociation, with fragments binding to dopants or nearby oxygen atoms. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as higher ΔEv hinders CO2 formation, impacting the catalyst's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical; lower ΔEv values enhance oxygen vacancy formation, boosting the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This results in a higher density of oxygen vacancies, increasing surface reactivity and the efficiency of oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, as evidenced by a 20% reduction in ΔEv for Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 compared to undoped CeO2. This promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface with gas-phase oxygen becomes difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but following the moderation principle is essential: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, as stated in quote [3]. This balance ensures the surface remains an effective oxidant, as explained in quote [4].", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 surfaces is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and filling the vacancy, making the reaction catalytic. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment. Doping with Au significantly weakens the oxygen bond, enhancing the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is crucial as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by controlling vacancy stability and concentration.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as it facilitates oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. The 'moderation principle' suggests that while a low ΔEv makes the oxide a potent oxidant, it compromises catalytic efficiency due to difficulty in oxygen replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen, forming vacancies. Favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is critical, as it enhances CO oxidation, regenerating the catalyst and boosting surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the oxidation of a reductant by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products, which are then filled by gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for an efficient oxidation catalyst, the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant, as a very small ΔEv could make reoxidation difficult. Balancing ΔEv is key to designing effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen's participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity by preferentially locating at the ZnO surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy to form, enhancing CO reaction. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as it influences the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energies varying linearly with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv's influence on two critical reactions makes it a descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing oxidant properties. Spin conservation rules out slow reactions, focusing on energetically favorable ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with favorable vacancy formation energy, are crucial for these reactions. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) determines the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as it influences the stability of the vacancy, driven by atomic relaxations. Surface sensitivity of the reactions is directly related to vacancy formation energies, not the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. In ceria doped with Pt, the Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with less energy. This reduction in ΔEv makes the oxide surface more reactive, improving catalytic performance for reactions like methane activation. The presence of Pt also introduces a new factor in the fate of electrons left behind when oxygen is removed, contributing to the lowering of ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability. Oxygen atoms near dopants are more reactive, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving oxidant activity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower ΔEv indicating better oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with the oxide surface to form CO2, creating oxygen vacancies. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, increasing the surface's reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants significantly reduce ΔEv, enhancing the mobility of lattice oxygen atoms and increasing catalytic activity. This is evidenced by a 20% reduction in ΔEv from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV on Zr-doped CeO2 surfaces compared to undoped CeO2. The presence of Zr promotes the reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+, assisting in the release of oxygen for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; it determines the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle applies: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, aiming for a balance. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the oxide's oxidant role, but the challenge is to prevent oxygen from being too easily removed, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves removing an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface and a better catalyst. For AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring CO oxidation thermodynamically. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with gas-phase CO to form a carbonate, releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes to release CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reactions catalytic. Doping weakens the bond between surface oxygen and the oxide, enhancing the oxidizing ability of the surface and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped oxide surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation employs lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, making the catalyst more active and potent.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing its oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen, forming vacancies. A favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as it enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancies are created when oxidation products desorb, and gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    