Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, with oxygen being released and re-added to the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies as a key step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics, particularly the role of oxygen vacancies and ΔEv, significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy linearly decreasing with ΔEv, the energy of vacancy formation. O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy also linearly depends on ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variability across doped oxides, make ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Applying a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces for the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv determines the surface sensitivity and catalytic activity, crucial for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The stability of the vacancy is driven by factors unrelated to the stability of the pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen-surface bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. DFT calculations show that Pt reduces the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation, making the oxide more reactive. Methane dissociates more easily on doped ceria, with a lower activation energy for CH bond breaking, due to the activation of oxygen atoms by Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high-temperature reactions. Doping weakens oxygen-oxide bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv, while indicative of oxidizing capacity, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity due to the importance of vacancy healing through oxygen adsorption and activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with certain elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. For doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing oxidant ability. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv enhances the reaction by facilitating oxygen vacancy creation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity, making it more effective in oxidation reactions. A lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy density, and increased surface reactivity, all of which boost the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation by promoting the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as too low an energy makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the moderation principle suggests aiming for a balance to ensure efficient reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After CO adsorption, an oxygen molecule reacts to form a carbonate, releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom to fill the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reaction catalytic. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxygen vacancy's reactivity and making the oxide a better oxidant. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring rapid oxygen vacancy replenishment. Doping with Au significantly weakens the surface oxygen bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, improving CO oxidation thermodynamics on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to create oxygen vacancies, acting as an oxidant for adsorbates. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences both catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidant strength with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, with subsequent oxygen replenishment regenerating the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's important to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic efficiency at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic activity, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The ease of oxygen release, directly related to ΔEv, is critical for high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies as a key step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. ΔEv's influence determines the rate of CO oxidation, making it a critical factor in the mechanism's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen for catalysis, with the oxide's reduced state reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, affecting both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (oxygen vacancy formation energy). ΔEv's variability across doped oxides makes it a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Applying a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as shown in studies (quote [6]).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for studying these reactions. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating easier oxygen atom release for oxidation reactions. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen-surface bonds, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, as well as the lowered activation energy for methane dissociation on Pt-doped surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv requiring higher temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv, while crucial, isn't a sole indicator of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also essential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, making it easier to remove and lowering ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. For doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing oxidant activity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower values indicating higher reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic and oxidizing abilities are inversely proportional to ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, as per the accepted mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, all of which boost the surface's reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the direct oxidation of CO, promoting the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and assisting oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removed, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst requires a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, following the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but excessive ease of oxygen removal complicates surface reoxidation. The moderation principle aims for this balance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and restore the surface, making the reaction catalytic. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. AuxTi1xO2 facilitates exothermic CO oxidation, with substantial energy release upon carbonate formation. Au doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxygen vacancy formation and oxidizing ability, making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on doped surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy formation, affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by influencing vacancy stability and concentration, essential for the catalytic process.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal as it affects the ease of oxygen removal and replacement, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, ensuring effective catalysis. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replenishment, illustrating the 'moderation principle'.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability enhances CO oxidation to CO2, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not necessarily mean a better oxidation catalyst, as the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation step, impacting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen (Quote [1]). Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation in this mechanism, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability (Quote [2]). Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv, with some decreasing it (Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, Cd) and enhancing surface catalysis, while others increase ΔEv (Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, Pb), potentially reducing catalytic efficiency. Dopants that decrease ΔEv prefer surface locations, whereas those increasing ΔEv often substitute bulk Zn atoms, except for Ca, Sr, Ba, La, Ce, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Sn, Pb, which favor surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens for the PROX reaction, involving oxygen release and re-oxidation. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced oxides can oxidize reactants and regenerate by re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy to form, facilitating CO reaction. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface, directly impacting the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies varying linearly with ΔEv (oxygen vacancy formation energy). ΔEv's role in catalytic activity is pivotal, as it affects two key reactions whose energies differ among doped oxides. Spin conservation guides the selection of energetically favorable intermediate reactions. Doped oxides, with lowered ΔEv, exhibit enhanced oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts, making them superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, crucial for oxidation and reduction processes. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) significantly impacts catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) facet, are optimal for catalytic reactions due to their favorable vacancy formation energy, which is not directly tied to the stability of pure ceria surfaces. The stability of these vacancies is influenced by atomic relaxations, and their formation energies determine the surface sensitivity of the reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is characterized by the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical determinant of catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, facilitating easier oxygen release for oxidation reactions. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the decreased energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, as shown in computational studies. The presence of Pt also influences the fate of electrons left behind when oxygen is removed, contributing to the lowering of ΔEv and promoting a more reactive oxide surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing ΔEv and lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, is not solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also vital.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping enhances oxygen reactivity, making it easier to remove and lowering ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate the mechanism, allowing CO to react more readily with oxygen near the dopant. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a vacancy and CO2. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv facilitates faster vacancy creation and enhances reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values enhance the formation of oxygen vacancies, boosting the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher density of oxygen vacancies, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism facilitates CO oxidation by direct interaction with ceria's lattice oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing oxygen mobility and catalytic efficiency. This reduction in ΔEv promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ conversion, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of oxides, not adsorbed oxygen. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it determines the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in designing oxidation catalysts, the moderation principle applies: dopants should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively. Doping with low-valence dopants (LVDs) enhances oxidant properties, but if oxygen is too easily removed, re-oxidation becomes difficult. Balancing oxygen removal and re-oxidation is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity and better catalysis. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule, releasing substantial energy and decomposing to CO2, leaving an oxygen atom to fill the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on doped surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, underlining its critical role in catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as it indicates the oxide's reducibility; lower ΔEv values signify easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and then regenerates by re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies as a key step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's significance lies in its influence on the rate of CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is a key indicator of the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, reflecting its power to supply oxygen for reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, CO reacts with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy linearly dependent on oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). O2 adsorption at a vacancy also varies linearly with ΔEv, making ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity. Only these two reactions' energies change across doped oxides. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, and reactions conserving spin are prioritized for catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) ceria surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv determines the surface sensitivity and is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, as reactions are sensitive to the nature of the ceria surface. The energy for CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2 conversion over ceria surfaces is influenced by ΔEv, underscoring its importance in the catalytic cycle.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is crucial for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface. In ceria doped with Pt, the presence of Pt dopants weakens the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with lower ΔEv. This enhances the oxide's catalytic activity for reactions like methane activation. The role of Pt is to activate nearby oxygen atoms, reducing the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation and thus increasing the oxide's reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperatures, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, is not solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily with reactants like CO. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, activating it for better oxidation. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, with lower ΔEv suggesting higher reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely related to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the mechanism's dynamics and the critical role of oxygen vacancies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, with lower values enhancing oxygen vacancy density and the oxide's oxidative power, thus boosting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply and release, increasing the oxide's effectiveness in catalyzing oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This is evidenced by a 20% reduction in ΔEv for Zr-doped CeO2 surfaces compared to undoped CeO2, promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical measure of the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes the surface a better oxidant but too low an energy makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in designing an oxidation catalyst, the moderation principle is applied: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, aiming for a balance. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, yet the challenge is to maintain this ability without compromising reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the removal of an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and leave an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, with lower ΔEv indicating a more reactive surface. On AuxTi1xO2 surfaces, CO oxidation using any surface oxygen atom is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes to CO2, leaving an oxygen atom to fill the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reactions catalytic. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically on doped surfaces compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation employs lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation being crucial. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv values enhance both by facilitating easier oxygen vacancy formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion, affecting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as it facilitates oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, ensuring effective catalysis. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining its catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. Critical to this process is the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products, which are then filled by a gas-phase oxidant like oxygen, CO2, or N2O. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity at the surface, while Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is a critical factor, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the easier it is for the oxide to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic efficiency and oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy (ΔEv) to form, facilitating CO reaction. ΔEv significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as lower energy requirements enhance the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as observed in studied materials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, crucial for CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for studying these reactions. ΔEv significantly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as it determines the surface sensitivity of the reactions. The stability of the vacancy is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of the pure ceria surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating easier oxygen release for oxidation reactions. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, making the oxide surface more reactive and lowering the activation energy for methane dissociation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the surface's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily, facilitating the mechanism. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity, with lower ΔEv indicating better oxidants. Dopants with higher valence than replaced cations adsorb oxygen from the gas phase, improving oxidation. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, enhancing reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, forming CO2 and creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity, making it more effective in oxidation reactions. A lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy density, and increased surface reactivity, all of which boost the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants notably reduce ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ transition, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it determines the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easy to remove, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in designing an oxidation catalyst, the moderation principle applies: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, aiming for a balance. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but if oxygen is too easily removed, reoxidation becomes difficult. The energy of vacancy formation indirectly measures the oxide's oxidant capability, highlighting the importance of ΔEv in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity and better catalysis. On AuxTi1xO2 surfaces, CO oxidation using any surface oxygen atom is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After CO adsorption, an oxygen molecule reacts to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reaction catalytic. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically on doped surfaces compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, which is essential for maintaining catalytic function. This moderation principle ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidant strength with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface but not necessarily a better catalyst. For a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key: making it small to enhance oxidizing ability, but not too small to avoid hindering reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Metal dopants in ZnO(1010) alter ΔEv, with some decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity, and others increasing it, potentially reducing efficiency. Specific dopants prefer surface or bulk substitution, affecting ΔEv differently.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. When reduced, the oxide releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and is then re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The ease of oxygen release, directly influenced by ΔEv, is crucial for high catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through the alternate reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as the key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it determines the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Surfaces requiring less energy for vacancy formation, like {110} and {100}, are more reactive with CO, enhancing CO oxidation rates. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's influence are essential in understanding the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen from the oxide surface catalyzes reactions, and the oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy linearly dependent on oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). Similarly, O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy is also linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions' energy variations across doped oxides highlight ΔEv's role as a descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts, as observed in studies. The spin conservation rule guides the selection of energetically favorable intermediate reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable ΔEv, are optimal for studying these reactions. The stability of the vacancy is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of the pure ceria surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, with ΔEv being a critical factor for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, facilitating oxygen release for oxidation. In ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, making oxygen vacancy formation easier and lowering ΔEv, thus enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation in Pt-doped ceria compared to pure ceria, as observed in studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms for reactant oxidation. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, reducing the energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. As noted, 'The oxygen atoms that are easier to remove are more reactive, and the lowering of the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation is a good descriptor of the extent to which doping makes the oxide a better oxidant.' For doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction to form oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values enhance the formation of oxygen vacancies, boosting the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen release, all of which increase the surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by 20% compared to undoped CeO2, facilitating CO oxidation and promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, which assists oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easy to remove, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle applies: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances oxidizing ability, but if oxygen is too easily removed, re-oxidation becomes difficult. Balancing oxygen removal and re-oxidation is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 surfaces is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability, making the catalyst more active.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability of the oxide.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it ensures the oxide is reactive but also capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining catalytic function. If a dopant makes oxygen vacancy formation too easy, the oxide becomes a good oxidant but a poor catalyst, as oxygen is hard to replace.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates by CO removing oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as making ΔEv more favorable enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a lower ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very low ΔEv does not guarantee a good oxidation catalyst as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation step.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygens participating in reactions by releasing and re-oxidizing oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy (ΔEv) to form, enhancing CO reaction accommodation. This lower ΔEv significantly boosts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, directly influencing CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies at the surface are crucial. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy varies across doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as they make doped oxides superior to undoped ones in vacancy formation energy.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling oxidation and reduction processes. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) orientation, are optimal for catalytic reactions due to their favorable ΔEv. The stability of oxygen vacancies is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv determines the surface sensitivity of reactions, which is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv makes the surface more reactive, improving catalytic performance for reactions like methane activation. The presence of Pt also affects the energy landscape for methane dissociation, lowering the activation energy for bond breaking. These findings highlight the importance of ΔEv in determining the oxidizing ability and catalytic activity of oxide surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; high ΔEv necessitates high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity and reduces the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. As indicated by Quote 2, lowering ΔEv correlates with improved oxidant properties. For doped oxides, CO interacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism (Quote 3). ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen's chemical reactivity (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as higher ΔEv hinders CO2 formation, reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This results in a higher density of oxygen vacancies, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply and release, crucial for effective catalysis and enhanced oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism facilitates CO oxidation on ceria surfaces, where oxygen vacancies play a critical role. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, as evidenced by reduced vacancy formation energy in Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 compared to undoped CeO2. This dopant effect promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants, donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; it determines the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface with gas-phase oxygen becomes challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the oxide's oxidant role, but excessive ease of oxygen removal complicates surface reoxidation. Balancing oxygen removal and reoxidation is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, with lower ΔEv indicating a more reactive surface. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes to release CO2 and refill the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on doped surfaces compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's efficiency and the oxide's oxidizing power are directly influenced by ΔEv, with lower values signifying a more active catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, ΔEv (oxygen vacancy formation energy) is critical. It facilitates oxygen removal and reinsertion, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining catalytic function without making oxygen replacement too difficult.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, such as O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical measure of the surface's oxidizing ability; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv, while making the surface a good oxidant, does not necessarily make it a good oxidation catalyst, as it could hinder the reoxidation step if oxygen is too easily removed. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    