Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation in this mechanism, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygens participating in reactions by releasing and re-oxidizing oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, catalyze reactions, and oxidize.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies, which are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This directly influences the rate of CO oxidation, underscoring ΔEv's significance in determining the oxide surface's catalytic and oxidizing properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with the reaction energy inversely proportional to ΔEv (the energy of vacancy formation). Adsorption of O2 at a vacancy also varies linearly with ΔEv, making these the only reactions whose energy changes across different doped oxides. ΔEv's role as a descriptor of catalytic activity is highlighted, as it affects both reactions. A spin conservation rule dictates that only spin-conserving reactions are viable for catalysis. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, with vacancy stability driven by atomic relaxations, unrelated to pure surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is characterized by the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, capable of readily releasing oxygen for oxidation reactions. In ceria doped with Pt, the presence of the dopant weakens the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with less energy. This results in enhanced catalytic activity, particularly for methane activation, as the Pt dopant activates adjacent oxygen atoms, making the surface more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping enhances oxygen reactivity, making it easier to remove and lowering ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, crucial for the mechanism. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing power. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, with lower values indicating higher reactivity, as per quote 2: 'The oxygen atoms that are easier to remove are more reactive, and the lowering of the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation is a good descriptor of the extent to which doping makes the oxide a better oxidant.' Quote 7 further clarifies: 'The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation can be used as a crude predictor of the ability of the oxygen atoms at the surface of the oxide to engage in chemical reactions.'", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, CO extracts an oxygen atom from the surface, forming CO2 and an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; lower ΔEv values enhance oxygen vacancy formation, increasing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This results in a higher density of oxygen vacancies, improving surface reactivity and the ability to oxidize reactants more effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst requires a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, embodying the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but excessive ease of oxygen removal complicates re-oxidation, emphasizing the need for a middle ground.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for this vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for determining catalytic activity and oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction. After adsorption, an oxygen molecule reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reaction catalytic. Doping weakens the bond between surface oxygen and the oxide, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal while ensuring it's not too difficult to reinsert oxygen, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidizing ability and catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates by CO removing oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is critical, as making ΔEv more favorable enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation, as oxygen might be too easily removed from the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Metal dopants in ZnO(1010) affect ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies, which are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reoxidation occurring through gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a key indicator of the oxide's oxidizing power, as noted in the quote: 'The energy of formation of an oxygen vacancy (VO) at the surface of the oxide is often a good indicator of the oxidizing power of the oxide.'", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies varying linearly with ΔEv. These reactions, influenced by ΔEv, are key to catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing oxidant properties, and reactions conserving spin are favored energetically.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The ceria (110) surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for studying these reactions. Surface sensitivity, determined by vacancy formation energies, affects the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO, highlighting the importance of ΔEv in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, with ΔEv playing a critical role in catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, facilitating oxygen release for oxidation. In ceria doped with Pt, the Pt dopants weaken oxygen-surface bonds, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the lower activation energy for CH bond breaking on Pt-doped ceria compared to pure ceria, demonstrating the Pt dopant's role in activating adjacent oxygen atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as high ΔEv necessitates high-temperature reactions. Doping can lower oxidation temperatures by weakening oxygen bonds. However, catalytic activity isn't solely determined by ΔEv, as the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing and activating oxygen is also key.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, which is a key descriptor of the oxide's oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, improving the mechanism's efficiency. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, boosting oxidant activity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, with lower values indicating higher reactivity, as noted in quote 2: 'The oxygen atoms that are easier to remove are more reactive, and the lowering of the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation is a good descriptor of the extent to which doping makes the oxide a better oxidant.' Quote 7 adds that ΔEv can crudely predict surface oxygen's engagement in reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a vacancy and CO2. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv enhances the formation of oxygen vacancies, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values facilitate vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates the oxide surface can more easily supply and release oxygen, increasing its oxidizing ability and reactivity with reactants.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. Specifically, Evac for undoped CeO2 is 2.87 eV, while for Ce0.75Zr0.25O2, it's reduced to 2.35 eV, demonstrating Zr's role in promoting oxygen vacancy formation and thus improving the surface's oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surface oxygen oxidizes reductants, with ΔEv indicating the surface's oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is crucial; too low a value makes surface reoxidation difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Doping with LVDs enhances oxidizing ability, but the moderation principle advises against making oxygen removal too easy, ensuring balanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the removal of an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; a lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 surfaces is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule to form a carbonate, releasing energy and decomposing to CO2, filling the vacancy and restoring the surface. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates. Au doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing the oxidizing ability and thermodynamic conditions for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a crucial role. Lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability, making it a more active catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, allowing for facile oxygen removal and reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulties in oxygen replenishment, illustrating the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability enhances CO oxidation to CO2, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical measure of the surface's oxidizing ability; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In designing an oxidation catalyst, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, involving the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as the critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, can more easily accommodate CO reactions, enhancing CO oxidation rates. This highlights ΔEv's critical role in determining the oxide surface's catalytic and oxidizing properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reoxidation occurring through gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for the oxide's oxidizing power, as noted in a key reference: 'ΔEv at the surface often indicates the oxide's oxidizing ability.'", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction and O2 adsorption energies linearly related to oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). These reactions, unique in their energy variability across doped oxides, make ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Spin conservation rules out slow reactions, focusing on energetically favorable processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces for the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), which determines surface sensitivity and catalytic activity. The stability of vacancies is influenced by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a critical factor in determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, as it can readily release oxygen for oxidation. In ceria, ΔEv varies with vacancy concentration and temperature, affecting catalytic performance. Pt-doped ceria exhibits a reduced ΔEv due to weakened oxygen-surface bonds, enhancing reactivity and catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation. This is evidenced by the decreased energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, making the oxide surface more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; high ΔEv necessitates high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't a sole indicator of catalytic activity; healing the vacancy by adsorbing and activating oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as more reactive oxygen atoms are easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv is a good descriptor of the oxide's improved catalytic activity. For instance, in doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages oxygen vacancies for oxygen transfer to reactants. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal; lower ΔEv values facilitate more oxygen vacancies, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity. This indicates easier oxygen supply and release, boosting the surface's reactivity and ability to oxidize reactants.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of the oxide, not by adsorbed oxygen. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface re-oxidation, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but maintain a balance, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but excessive ease of oxygen removal complicates re-oxidation. Balancing oxygen removal and re-oxidation is key to effective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for this (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, with lower ΔEv indicating higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (Evf) is key to understanding the oxide's oxidizing ability. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with subsequent oxide reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This directly correlates with a more active catalyst and improved oxidizing capacity due to facilitated oxygen vacancy formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it affects the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replenishment, illustrating the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen's participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity by preferentially locating at the ZnO surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction by releasing and re-oxidizing oxygen. The oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is a critical factor, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it can release oxygen to oxidize reactants and then be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy (ΔEv) to form, facilitating CO reaction. This energy requirement is critical, as lower ΔEv enhances catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, influencing CO oxidation rates. Understanding ΔEv's role is essential for determining the mechanism's effectiveness in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies are crucial. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction and O2 adsorption energies varying linearly with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv's role as a descriptor of catalytic activity is highlighted, as it affects both reaction energies. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, making doped oxides superior to undoped ones. The spin conservation rule determines likely intermediate reactions, favoring those that conserve spin.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) ceria surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable ΔEv, which is not directly tied to the stability of pure ceria surfaces. The energy for CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2 conversion over ceria surfaces is influenced by vacancy formation energies, highlighting ΔEv's critical role in catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, reducing ΔEv and increasing reactivity. This facilitates methane activation by lowering the activation energy for CH bond breaking. The presence of Pt also activates adjacent oxygen atoms, contributing to the catalytic process. The role of ΔEv and Pt doping in enhancing catalytic activity is supported by computational and experimental evidence.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, which predicts the oxide's oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, improving the mechanism's efficiency. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, enhancing oxidant activity. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, binding fragments to the dopant or nearby oxygen atoms. ΔEv's reduction is a good descriptor of the oxide's improved oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, CO extracts an oxygen atom from the surface, forming CO2 and creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the catalyst's oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies for oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This is because a lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher vacancy formation rate, and greater surface reactivity, making the oxide more effective in catalyzing oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by 20% to 2.35 eV, compared to 2.87 eV on undoped CeO2 surfaces. This reduction promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ conversion, facilitating oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, a balance is sought: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, embodying the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but if oxygen removal is too facile, re-oxidation becomes challenging.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy required for this process, is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. AuxTi1xO2 surfaces favor CO oxidation, which is exothermic. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and filling the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxidizing ability and thermodynamically favoring CO oxidation on doped surfaces. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as it facilitates oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidant strength with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as its favorability enhances CO oxidation to CO2, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for complete catalytic activity, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's vital to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. By substituting Zn atoms in ZnO with metal dopants, ΔEv can be altered, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. The energy required for this (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's significance lies in its impact on CO oxidation rates, influenced by ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen catalyzes reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy varying linearly with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). ΔEv is crucial for catalytic activity, as it influences these key reactions. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, making doped oxides superior to undoped ones. The spin conservation rule guides the selection of energetically favorable intermediate reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The ceria (110) surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for these reactions. Surface sensitivity is determined by vacancy formation energies, unrelated to pure ceria surface stability. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv does not correlate with pure surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as seen in ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as the energy required for vacancy formation is reduced, making the oxide surface more reactive. The presence of Pt also affects the energy landscape, lowering the activation energy for bond breaking and contributing to the overall reactivity of the oxide surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv necessitating higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv measures oxidizing capacity but isn't a direct indicator of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. As indicated by quote 2, the ease of oxygen removal correlates with reactivity, making ΔEv a good descriptor of doping's impact. Quote 3 exemplifies how doping facilitates the mechanism for oxidation, and quote 7 confirms that ΔEv predicts surface oxygen atoms' chemical reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values enhance oxygen vacancy formation, boosting the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher density of oxygen vacancies, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing capability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces oxidize reductants by donating oxygen atoms, with ΔEv indicating the surface's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Thus, designing an oxidation catalyst involves aiming for a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen atom removal but not excessively, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but if oxygen is too easily removed, re-oxidation becomes challenging. This balance is key to effective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with CO, releasing substantial energy and decomposing to CO2, leaving an oxygen atom to fill the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxidizing ability and thermodynamic conditions for CO oxidation on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This is because a reduced ΔEv indicates a more active catalyst and a higher oxidizing potential due to the increased ease of oxygen vacancy creation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it affects the stability and concentration of vacancies, which are essential for catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences the ease of oxygen manipulation, affecting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, ensuring the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining catalytic function without making oxygen replacement too challenging.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products, which are then filled by a gas-phase oxidant, such as O2, CO2, or N2O. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In designing an oxidation catalyst, it's crucial to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, and others decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while dopants such as Mg, Ca, and others increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, with oxygen being released and re-added to the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, can more easily accommodate CO reaction, enhancing the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the reduced oxide regenerating via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy linearly related to oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). Similarly, O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy is also linearly dependent on ΔEv. These reactions are unique in their energy variation across doped oxides, making ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv is crucial as it determines the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, unrelated to pure ceria surface stability. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, and the energy for CO, NO2, and NO conversion over ceria surfaces is influenced by ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, as it can release oxygen atoms more easily for oxidation reactions. In ceria doped with Pt, the presence of Pt dopants weakens the bond between oxygen atoms and the surface, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in a lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's reactivity and catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions. The reduction of Pt and the change in oxygen vacancy formation energy due to doping are key factors in this process, as evidenced by computational and experimental studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv is not solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with certain elements enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, making the oxide a better oxidant. As quote 2 highlights, oxygen atoms that are easier to remove are more reactive, and a reduced ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. Quote 3 exemplifies how doping facilitates the mechanism for oxidation, as in doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions, as noted in quote 7. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, enhancing the oxide's catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, CO binds with surface oxygen to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, as per the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions operates by utilizing oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; lower ΔEv values enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity, making it more effective in oxidation reactions. This is because a lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy formation rate, and greater surface reactivity, all of which increase the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms, not adsorbed oxygen. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface with gas-phase oxygen becomes challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in designing catalysts, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too effortless, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but excessive ease of oxygen removal complicates surface reoxidation. Balancing oxygen removal and reoxidation is key to effective catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the removal of an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO to form a product and leave an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for determining catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface and a better catalyst. For AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using any surface oxygen atom is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with gas-phase CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes to release CO2 and fills the vacancy with an oxygen atom, restoring the surface and making the reactions catalytic. The mechanism's efficiency is enhanced by doping with Au, which weakens the surface oxygen bond to the oxide, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and enhancing the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's efficiency and the oxide's oxidizing power are directly influenced by ΔEv, with lower values signifying a more active catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for catalytic efficiency. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide remains reactive and capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining its catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, with subsequent oxygen replenishment regenerating the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as a more favorable ΔEv enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not guarantee a good oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, a balance is sought to make ΔEv small but not too small, ensuring the surface can be effectively reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with certain dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while others like Mg, Ca, and Fe increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces like {110} and {100} require less ΔEv, facilitating CO reaction, and thus, CO oxidation rate.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a key indicator of the oxide's oxidizing power, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (Quote 1). These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity (Quote 3). Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability (Quote 6). Applying a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable for catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces, which are critical for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) surface is optimal for studying these reactions due to its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv determines the surface sensitivity and catalytic activity, as it affects the energy required for CO, NO2, and NO conversion. The stability of the vacancy is not directly related to the pure ceria surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In ceria, doping with Pt weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and increasing reactivity. This is evidenced by the decrease in energy required to form oxygen vacancies from 3.00 eV in pure ceria to 2.15 eV in Pt-doped ceria, making it more active in oxidation reactions like methane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances the reactivity of these oxygen atoms, lowering ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv is a key descriptor of the oxide's improved oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate the mechanism by enabling CO to react more readily with oxygen atoms near the dopant. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, activating it for better oxidation. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, enhancing surface reactivity. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' chemical reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, boosting surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surface oxygen oxidizes reductants, with ΔEv determining the surface's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen challenging, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst involves aiming for a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, adhering to the moderation principle. The easier oxygen vacancy formation is, the better the surface's oxidant capability, and doping with a low-valence dopant enhances this. However, if oxygen removal is too easy, re-oxidation becomes difficult.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase CO to form a carbonate and release CO2, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. On AuxTi1xO2 surfaces, CO oxidation is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Au doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as it facilitates oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, ensuring effective catalysis. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replenishment, illustrating the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen, forming vacancies. Favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is key, enhancing CO oxidation and thus the catalyst's activity and surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. The gas-phase oxidant reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    