Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO with metal dopants affects ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability by preferentially locating at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction by releasing and re-oxidizing oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as it indicates the oxide's reducibility; lower ΔEv values signify easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, facilitate CO reaction due to easier vacancy formation. This mechanism's efficiency, influenced by ΔEv, determines the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies supply oxygen, reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy decreasing linearly with ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. O2 adsorption at a vacancy also varies linearly with ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy changes across different doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Spin conservation rules out reactions requiring spin flips, focusing on spin-conserving reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, crucial for CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv determines surface sensitivity and catalytic activity, independent of pure ceria surface stability. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is key to understanding the oxidizing ability of oxide surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, as it can release oxygen atoms more easily for oxidation reactions. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with less energy. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by the reduced ΔEv and increased reactivity observed in Pt-doped ceria compared to pure ceria.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the oxide's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, making it easier to remove and lowering ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. For doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing power. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv enhances the reaction rate.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to transfer oxygen to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction to form vacancies. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, increasing the surface's reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen atoms. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle is applied: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, ensuring a balance. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the challenge is to maintain this ability without compromising reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen vacancy formation, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Adsorbed oxygen reacts with CO, forming a carbonate and releasing CO2, restoring the surface. Dopants weaken surface oxygen bonds, enhancing reactivity. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates. Au doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, improving oxidizing ability and thermodynamics for CO oxidation on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is crucial as lower values indicate easier oxygen release, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as evidenced by the mechanism's efficiency in reactions with reduced ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences both catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, ensuring facile oxygen removal and reinsertion, which is essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion, illustrating the 'moderation principle'.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key: it should be reduced to enhance oxidizing ability without becoming too small, which could impair the reoxidation step.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity by preferentially locating at the ZnO surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, with oxygen being released and re-added to the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) on {110} and {100} surfaces is lower, facilitating CO reaction. This energy's role is critical as it influences the rate of CO oxidation, thereby determining the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen from the oxide surface catalyzes reactions, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, as the reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). ΔEv's variation across doped oxides makes it a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Spin conservation rules out reactions requiring spin flips, focusing on energetically favorable spin-conserving reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy stability and unrelated to pure ceria surface stability, significantly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, as seen in doped ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen-surface bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, with a reduced activation energy barrier for methane dissociation, as evidenced by DFT calculations and experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; high ΔEv necessitates high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability by making oxygen atoms more reactive and reducing the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with oxygen near the dopant, and dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, CO extracts an oxygen atom from the surface, forming CO2 and an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This is because a lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply and release, leading to a higher density of oxygen vacancies, which boosts surface reactivity and oxidation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity by promoting the reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+, facilitating CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical as it determines the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes the surface a better oxidant but too low an energy makes re-oxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. The moderation principle in catalyst design suggests aiming for a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively. This ensures the surface remains an effective oxidant while allowing for efficient re-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This relationship underscores the mechanism's efficiency and the oxide surface's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by influencing vacancy stability and concentration.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal and replacement, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion, underscoring the moderation principle for effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen, forming vacancies. Favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) boosts CO2 production, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products, which are then filled by a gas-phase oxidant, such as oxygen, CO2, or N2O. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not necessarily mean a better oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In catalyst design, it's important to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show how substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with metal dopants affects ΔEv. Dopants like Li, Na, and Au decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while Mg, Ca, and others increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency. Certain dopants prefer surface substitution, affecting ΔEv and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, with oxygen being released and re-added to the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as the critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces like {110} and {100} require less ΔEv, facilitating CO reaction, thus enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power. Reduced oxides are reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen, highlighting the critical influence of ΔEv on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy decreasing linearly with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). Adsorption of O2 at a vacancy also varies linearly with ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy changes across different doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as observed in studied cases. (Quote 1: \"The energy of CO reaction with an oxygen atom from the surface layer decays linearly with the energy of vacancy formation ΔEv...\") (Quote 3: \"Because they both depend on the energy of oxygen vacancy formation...\") (Quote 6: \"We find that all the dopants studied here lower the energy of vacancy formation...\")", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces, crucial for CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2, NO reduction to NO, N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv determines surface sensitivity, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, independent of pure ceria surface stability. Vacancy stability is influenced by atomic relaxations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a critical factor in determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating easier oxygen atom release for oxidation reactions. In ceria, ΔEv varies with vacancy concentration and temperature, affecting oxygen release. Pt dopants in ceria weaken the oxygen-surface bond, reducing the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation, thus enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, while crucial, doesn't solely define catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also key.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, which indicates improved oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, activating the mechanism. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, boosting oxidant quality. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, binding fragments to the dopant or nearby oxygen. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a CO2 molecule and an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) inversely correlates with the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, highlighting its critical role in the mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv also means the oxide surface can more easily release oxygen, further enhancing its catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. As evidenced by a 20% reduction in ΔEv from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV on Zr-doped CeO2 surfaces, this promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of oxides, not adsorbed oxygen. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. Low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, essential for catalytic cycles. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen atom removal but not excessively, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the challenge is achieving a balance to ensure reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the removal of an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; a lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction. Oxygen molecules adsorb, react with CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reaction catalytic. The mechanism's efficiency is enhanced by dopants like Au, which weaken the surface oxygen bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring rapid oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation reducing the oxide. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as lower values enhance catalytic activity and oxidizing ability by facilitating easier oxygen vacancy creation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by controlling vacancy stability and concentration.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidant strength with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen, forming vacancies. A more favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) boosts CO2 production, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv doesn't guarantee a good oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with certain metal dopants affects ΔEv. Dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, and others increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves ceria's surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. Lower oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) indicates easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and then regains its original state through re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv values facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen from the oxide surface catalyzes reactions, with the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy varying linearly with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). ΔEv is a key descriptor of catalytic activity, as it affects the two reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides. Spin conservation rules out reactions requiring spin flips, focusing on spin-conserving reactions. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, crucial for oxidation and reduction processes. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable ΔEv, are optimal for studying these reactions. The stability of vacancies is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly linked to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, as seen in doped ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, facilitating easier oxygen vacancy formation. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by reduced ΔEv and increased reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, making the oxide a better oxidant. As noted, the ease of oxygen removal correlates with reactivity, and ΔEv's reduction by doping indicates improved oxidizing ability. For instance, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near a dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, underlining its critical role in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, forming CO2 and creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the catalyst's oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values are critical, as they enable easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency for oxidation reactions. This results in a higher density of oxygen vacancies, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, as they promote the reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+, facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, a balance is sought: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, embodying the moderation principle. Doping with low-valence dopants (LVDs) enhances oxidizing ability, but the challenge is to maintain a middle ground for efficient reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and restoring the surface. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) must be moderate: too low, and the oxide becomes a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion; too high, and oxygen removal is hindered. A moderate ΔEv ensures efficient oxygen removal and reinsertion, maintaining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv, while making the surface a good oxidant, might not necessarily make it a good oxidation catalyst due to potential difficulties in reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be effectively reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability by preferentially locating at the ZnO surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancies allow the oxide to release oxygen for reactant oxidation and then be re-oxidized, regenerating the original state. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. ΔEv serves as a probe of oxide reducibility, with lower values signifying higher catalytic and oxidizing potential.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through the alternate reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces requiring less ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, can more easily react with CO, enhancing CO oxidation rates. This mechanism's significance lies in its influence on the rate of CO oxidation, highlighting ΔEv's role in determining catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the reduced oxide regenerating via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for the oxide's oxidizing ability, as highlighted by the quote, making it a key indicator of catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy decreasing linearly with ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. Similarly, O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy is linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variation across doped oxides, depend on ΔEv, making it a descriptor of catalytic activity. Doped oxides, with lowered ΔEv, are superior oxidants compared to undoped ones. Spin conservation rules out reactions requiring spin flips, focusing on spin-conserving reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable ΔEv, are ideal for studying these reactions. The stability of the vacancy is influenced by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is driven by the oxide surface's redox properties, with ΔEv playing a pivotal role in catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, facilitating oxygen atom release for oxidation. Pt-doped ceria exemplifies this, where Pt weakens oxygen-surface bonds, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, as shown in Quote [4], and the correlation between dopants that lower ΔEv and increased oxide reactivity, as stated in Quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv, however, is not a direct measure of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily with reactants like CO. Dopants with higher valence than replaced cations adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing power. ΔEv's reduction is a good descriptor of enhanced oxidant capability, and it predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation and thus higher oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, using oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen release, boosting surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, promoting the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, and assisting oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes the surface a better oxidant but too low an energy makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. The moderation principle in catalyst design suggests aiming for a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, yet maintaining this balance is crucial for effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and leave an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for determining catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Oxygen molecules adsorb, react with CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reactions catalytic. Doping weakens the bond between surface oxygen and the oxide, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal as lower values signify easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This indicates a more active catalyst with heightened oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it affects both catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it ensures oxygen is easily removed but not too difficult to reinsert, maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' is essential for effective catalysis, as overly easy oxygen vacancy formation results in a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface but not necessarily a better catalyst. For a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Metal dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity, while Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can then be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the easier it is for the oxide to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, facilitate CO reaction, enhancing the mechanism's efficiency in CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power. Reduced oxides are reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen, and ΔEv is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies varying linearly with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). ΔEv's role as a descriptor of catalytic activity is highlighted, as it affects both reactions. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, making doped oxides superior to undoped ones. The spin conservation rule guides the selection of energetically favorable intermediate reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for studying these reactions. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as it can release oxygen more easily. In ceria doped with Pt, the Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with lower ΔEv. This enhances the oxide's reactivity, making it more effective in catalyzing methane activation and oxidation reactions. The presence of Pt reduces the energy needed to form oxygen vacancies, contributing to the oxide's enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv requiring high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't a direct measure of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, which is a key descriptor of the oxide's oxidizing ability. As noted, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near a dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, with lower values indicating higher reactivity, as doping facilitates molecular dissociation by binding fragments to the dopant or nearby oxygen atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv enhances the formation of oxygen vacancies, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv also means the oxide surface can more easily supply and release oxygen, crucial for catalyzing oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism facilitates CO oxidation on ceria surfaces, where oxygen vacancies play a critical role. Zr dopants lower the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. Reduced ΔEv promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation. This process dynamics, influenced by ΔEv, is central to understanding oxide-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reactants, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle is applied: dopants should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, ensuring a balance. Doping with low-valence dopants enhances oxidizing ability, but the challenge is to maintain reoxidation capability, as emphasized by the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the removal of an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and restoring the surface. This process is exothermic, favoring CO oxidation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; a lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it affects the ease of oxygen manipulation, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidant strength with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is critical, as making ΔEv more favorable enhances CO oxidation, underscoring its role in catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical measure of the surface's oxidizing ability, with a smaller ΔEv indicating a better oxidant. However, a very small ΔEv does not guarantee a better oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In designing an oxidation catalyst, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is then reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show how substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv. Dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, and others increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, with the oxide lattice releasing and re-adding oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values signify easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through the alternate reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a critical step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy (ΔEv) to form, facilitating CO reaction. This energy's significance lies in its direct influence on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, affecting CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power. Reduced oxides are reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen, highlighting ΔEv's role in catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction and O2 adsorption energies linearly dependent on oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv's variability among doped oxides makes it a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Spin-conserving reactions are favored energetically.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable ΔEv, are optimal for studying these reactions. The stability of the vacancy is driven by atomic relaxations, but ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of the pure ceria surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is pivotal for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating oxygen atom release for oxidation reactions. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing the oxide's reactivity. This results in improved catalytic activity for methane activation, as evidenced by the lowering of the activation energy for methane dissociation on Pt-doped ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv necessitating higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, is not solely indicative of catalytic activity; the oxide's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances the reactivity of oxygen atoms, reducing the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv). This lowered ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. For doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing capacity. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, with fragments binding to the dopant or nearby oxygen atoms. The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the quote: 'the oxidation activity of a catalyst should be inversely related to the oxygen vacancy energy formation.'", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv enables easier oxygen release, boosting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by 20% compared to undoped CeO2, from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV per vacancy. This reduction promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants, donating oxygen atoms to reactants. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle applies: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too effortless. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the oxide's oxidizing capacity, but maintaining a balance is key to ensure the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase CO to form a carbonate and release CO2, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, directly impacting the reaction's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it facilitates oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for catalytic activity. A dopant that makes oxygen vacancy formation too easy results in a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst, due to difficulty in oxygen replacement. Thus, ΔEv's moderation is key for effective catalysis, ensuring the oxide remains reactive and capable of regaining oxygen to maintain its catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen, forming vacancies that are replenished to regenerate the catalyst. Favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is critical, as it enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like oxygen, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical factor; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    