Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Metal dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygens participating in reactions through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancies, formed when oxygen is released, are crucial for the reaction's progress. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a key factor; lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it can oxidize reactants and then be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating oxygen vacancies as a critical step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for vacancy formation (ΔEv) on {110} and {100} surfaces is lower, facilitating CO reaction. This energy's significance lies in its impact on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, influencing CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is a critical indicator of the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction and O2 adsorption energies linearly related to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). These reactions, unique in their energy variation across doped oxides, highlight ΔEv's role in catalytic activity. A spin conservation rule determines likely intermediate reactions. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, not directly related to pure ceria surface stability, determines the surface's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. The stability of the vacancy is influenced by atomic relaxations, and the energy for CO, NO2, and NO conversion over ceria surfaces is sensitive to ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as seen in doped ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, making oxygen vacancy formation easier. This results in a more reactive oxide surface, enhancing catalytic activity for oxidation reactions, particularly in methane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperatures, with higher ΔEv requiring higher temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing ΔEv and lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv measures oxidizing capacity but isn't a direct indicator of catalytic activity, as healing the vacancy by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping lowers the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb oxygen, improving its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to ΔEv, as per the accepted mechanism for Au/CeO2, highlighting the critical role of oxygen vacancy formation energy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity by facilitating easier oxygen supply and higher vacancy density, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface donates oxygen atoms to the reactant, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface re-oxidation, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst requires a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, following the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but maintaining this balance is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and restore the surface, making the process catalytic. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (Evf) determines how easily the oxide can donate an oxygen atom for oxidation and replenish the vacancy, balancing reduction and oxidation rates. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it affects both catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, ensuring effective catalysis. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replacement. The moderation principle, highlighted in the quote, is essential for maintaining catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates by CO removing oxygen, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as a more favorable ΔEv enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface, but not necessarily a better catalyst. For a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's important to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen's participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO surfaces with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens from ceria participating in the PROX reaction, where oxygen is removed and re-added to the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating the original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, and thus, its catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces like {110} and {100} require less ΔEv, facilitating CO reaction. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role are crucial for understanding CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with the energy of CO reaction and O2 adsorption at a vacancy varying linearly with ΔEv (the energy of vacancy formation). ΔEv's influence on these reactions makes it a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as they make doped oxides superior oxidants compared to undoped ones. This highlights ΔEv's critical role in determining catalytic efficiency and surface oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy stability, directly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, independent of pure ceria surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is characterized by the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, facilitating easier oxygen release for oxidation reactions. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen-surface bonds, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation. This demonstrates the critical role of ΔEv in determining the oxide's catalytic and oxidizing capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; high ΔEv necessitates high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the vacancy's healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygen atoms oxidizing reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, which predicts the oxide's oxidizing ability. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving oxidant quality. Doping facilitates molecule adsorption, with fragments binding to dopants or nearby oxygen atoms. ΔEv's reduction indicates better surface oxygen engagement in reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as per the mechanism's dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency. Reduced ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy density, and increased surface reactivity, crucial for effective oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism facilitates CO oxidation on ceria surfaces by direct interaction with lattice oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic efficiency. This reduction in ΔEv promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ conversion, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the surface's oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as too low a value makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Doping with LVDs enhances oxidizing ability, but the moderation principle advises against making oxygen too easily removable, as this hinders surface reoxidation. The goal is to balance ease of oxygen removal with the ability to reoxidize, ensuring efficient catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and restore the surface, making the process catalytic. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (Evf) determines how easily an oxygen atom can be donated during oxidation and replenished from the gas phase, balancing oxide reduction and oxidation. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidizing ability and catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation to CO2, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant then reoxidizes the surface, filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical measure of the surface's oxidizing ability; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves ceria's surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. The oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating and replenishing surface oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This directly influences the rate of CO oxidation, highlighting ΔEv's significance in determining the oxide surface's catalytic and oxidizing properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as seen in studied dopants.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for studying these reactions. Vacancy formation energies determine surface sensitivity, independent of pure ceria surface stability, driven by atomic relaxations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating easier oxygen release for oxidation reactions. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, making the surface more reactive for methane activation and other oxidation processes. The presence of Pt also affects the electronic structure, contributing to the lowering of ΔEv and promoting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the surface's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances the reactivity of these oxygen atoms, reducing the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv). This reduction in ΔEv indicates the improved oxidizing ability of the oxide. For example, in doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence than the replaced cation adsorb oxygen from the gas phase, enhancing its oxidizing capacity. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, where fragments bind to the dopant or nearby oxygen atoms. The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation is a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv enhances the catalyst's oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions operates by utilizing oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values enhance oxygen vacancy formation, boosting the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This results in a higher density of oxygen vacancies, increasing surface reactivity and the ability to oxidize reactants more effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes the reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of the oxide, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface with gas-phase oxygen becomes challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the oxide's oxidizing capacity, but if oxygen removal is too facile, re-oxidation is hindered. Balancing oxygen removal and re-oxidation is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for this vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface and better catalytic performance. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored due to the exothermic nature of using surface oxygen atoms. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes to CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reactions catalytic. The mechanism is enhanced by dopants like Au, which weaken the surface oxygen bond, making oxygen vacancies more reactive and improving the oxide's oxidizing ability. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick replenishment of oxygen vacancies.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability, making it a more active catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) must be moderate: too low and the oxide becomes a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion; too high and oxygen removal is hindered. A moderate ΔEv ensures efficient oxygen removal and reinsertion, maintaining catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, complicating the reoxidation step.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants alters ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing it, enhancing surface activity, while Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens for the PROX reaction, involving oxygen's release and re-oxidation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; lower ΔEv indicates easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced oxides can oxidize reactants and regenerate by re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv values facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces like {110} and {100} require less ΔEv, facilitating CO reaction and enhancing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is a key indicator of the oxide's oxidizing ability, directly influencing catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy varies across doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor for catalytic activity. A spin conservation rule determines likely intermediate reactions, with dopants lowering ΔEv and enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, not directly related to pure ceria surface stability, determines the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. The stability of the vacancy is influenced by atomic relaxations, and the energy for CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2 conversion over ceria surfaces is sensitive to ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in a lower ΔEv, making the surface more reactive and enhancing catalytic activity for oxidation reactions, as evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; higher ΔEv necessitates higher temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv measures oxidizing capacity but isn't a direct indicator of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements makes oxygen atoms more reactive and reduces the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate the mechanism, allowing CO to react more readily with oxygen near the dopant. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower values indicating better oxidants.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. This vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) inversely correlates with catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as seen in CO2 formation on Au/CeO2, highlighting ΔEv's critical role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions operates by utilizing the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This is because a lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply to the reaction, higher oxygen vacancy density, and more effective oxygen release, all of which increase the surface reactivity and oxidation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 (111), ΔEv is reduced by 20% to 2.35 eV, compared to 2.87 eV on undoped CeO2 (111). This reduction promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ conversion, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, and ΔEv is critical for its oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. The energy of vacancy formation indirectly measures the oxide's oxidant capacity. A balance is needed: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, as per the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidant ability, but if oxygen removal is too facile, re-oxidation with gas-phase oxygen becomes challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring CO oxidation. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule, forming a carbonate and releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reactions catalytic. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This indicates a more active catalyst with heightened oxidizing potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) determines the ease of oxygen removal and replacement, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it facilitates oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidizing ability with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv doesn't guarantee a good oxidation catalyst as the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key: it should be reduced to enhance oxidizing ability but not too much, as this could hinder reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation in this mechanism, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. By substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with metal dopants, ΔEv can be altered, with some dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while others such as Mg, Ca, and Fe increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency. The preference of dopants for surface or bulk substitution further influences these effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygens participating in reactions through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The ease of oxygen release, directly related to ΔEv, is critical for the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies, which are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Surfaces like {110} and {100} require less ΔEv, facilitating CO reaction, and thus, the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen from the oxide surface catalyzes reactions, and the oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. A spin conservation rule favors reactions without spin flips. Doped oxides, with lowered ΔEv, are superior oxidants compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for studying these reactions. ΔEv, not directly linked to pure ceria surface stability, determines surface sensitivity and catalytic activity. Atomic relaxations stabilize the vacancy, and computed energies for CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2 conversion over ceria surfaces highlight the role of ΔEv in surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in a reduced ΔEv, making the surface more reactive and enhancing catalytic activity for oxidation reactions, as evidenced by the reduction of Pt and the lowering of energy required for vacancy formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, while indicative of oxidizing capacity, isn't a direct measure of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers ΔEv, making the oxide a better oxidant. As noted, 'The oxygen atoms that are easier to remove are more reactive, and the lowering of the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation is a good descriptor of the extent to which doping makes the oxide a better oxidant.' For doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing ability. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the mechanism's dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen release, boosting surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes the reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle applies: dopants should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but if oxygen is too easily removed, re-oxidation becomes challenging. Balancing oxygen removal is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (Evf) is key to understanding the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond to the oxide, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically on the doped surface compared to the undoped one. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick replenishment of oxygen vacancies.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability, making it a key factor in the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as it facilitates efficient oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. This moderation principle ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidizing ability and catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is later replenished to restore the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key to ensuring both high oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Metal dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the ZnO surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies as a key step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, as noted in a key reference (59).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction and O2 adsorption energies varying linearly with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv is a key descriptor of catalytic activity, as it affects both reactions. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, making doped oxides superior to undoped ones. The spin conservation rule guides the selection of energetically favorable intermediate reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface, are optimal for studying these reactions due to their favorable ΔEv. The stability of oxygen vacancies is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a critical factor for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In ceria, ΔEv varies with vacancy concentration and temperature, affecting oxygen release. Pt-doped ceria exhibits a lower ΔEv due to weakened oxygen-surface bonds, enhancing catalytic activity for reactions like methane activation. The presence of Pt reduces the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation, making the oxide surface more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with certain elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, enhancing the mechanism's efficiency. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, making it a better oxidant. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages oxygen vacancies for oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv also signifies easier oxygen release, boosting catalytic activity for oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. They promote the reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface becomes challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but maintaining a balance is key to ensure surface reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Adsorbed oxygen reacts with CO, forming a carbonate and releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reaction catalytic. Dopants weaken surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxygen vacancy reactivity. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment. Au doping significantly weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing the oxide surface's oxidizing ability, making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically on doped surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, as it facilitates efficient oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replenishment, illustrating the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, CO extracts oxygen, forming vacancies; favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) boosts CO2 production, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface, but not necessarily a better catalyst. For a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key: it should be reduced to enhance oxidizing ability without making reoxidation too difficult.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide reoxidizing with gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, and Au decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while Mg, Ca, and Fe increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the easier it is for the oxide to release oxygen, directly correlating with higher catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. The energy required for this (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction. This highlights ΔEv's role in determining the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, crucial for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, where CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption at a vacancy linearly correlate with ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation. These reactions, unique in their energy variability across doped oxides, make ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as seen in studied dopants. Spin conservation rules out reactions requiring spin flips, focusing on spin-conserving processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy stability and unrelated to pure ceria surface stability, significantly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, as it facilitates oxygen atom release for oxidation reactions. In ceria doped with Pt, the dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, making oxygen vacancy formation easier and lowering ΔEv. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, demonstrating the significance of ΔEv in determining surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv necessitating higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the oxide's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms become more reactive and easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv is a good descriptor of the oxide's improved oxidant properties. For doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence than the replaced cation adsorb O2, activating it for better oxidation. Oxygen vacancy formation energy predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, increasing the surface's reactivity and ability to oxidize reactants, as a lower ΔEv means the oxide surface can more easily supply and release oxygen, crucial for catalyzing oxidation reactions and boosting its oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easy to remove, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle applies: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but maintaining balance is key to effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate and CO2, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 surfaces is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable thermodynamically. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as lower values enhance catalytic activity and oxidizing ability by facilitating easier oxygen vacancy creation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal and replacement, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion. This moderation principle ensures the oxide remains reactive and capable of regaining oxygen, sustaining its catalytic role.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing both catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O then reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for effective catalysis, ΔEv must not be too small, as this could hinder the surface's reoxidation by the gaseous oxidant, impacting the catalytic cycle's completion.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    