Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with specific metal dopants affects ΔEv, with some decreasing it (Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, Cd) and enhancing surface catalytic properties, while others increase ΔEv (Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, Pb), potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to release and re-oxidize oxygen, facilitating the PROX reaction. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. The energy required for this (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics and the role of ΔEv significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen for reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for the oxide's oxidizing power, indicating its catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, varying across doped oxides, highlight ΔEv's role in catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, making doped oxides superior oxidants compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy stability and unrelated to pure ceria surface stability, significantly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, facilitating easier oxygen release for oxidation reactions. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, as shown in quote 4, and the subsequent reduction of Pt, as detailed in quote 6, which contributes to lowering the energy of vacancy formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; high ΔEv necessitates high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily with reactants. This reduction in ΔEv, which is crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the oxide's improved catalytic activity. Dopants with higher valence than the replaced cation adsorb oxygen from the gas phase, activating it for better oxidation. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower ΔEv suggesting higher reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv enhances the formation of vacancies, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen release, all of which increase the surface's reactivity and oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it determines the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst involves aiming for a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, following the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but care must be taken to ensure oxygen can be re-adsorbed.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and restore the surface, making the reaction catalytic. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface and better catalytic performance. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. The mechanism's efficiency is enhanced by doping with Au, which weakens the surface oxygen bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and improving the oxide's oxidizing ability. The balance between oxide reduction and oxidation rates is essential for a good catalyst, ensuring rapid oxygen vacancy replenishment post-oxidation reaction.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, ensuring the oxide is reactive but also capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining catalytic function. If a dopant makes oxygen vacancy formation too easy, the material becomes a good oxidant but a poor catalyst, as oxygen is hard to replace, highlighting the importance of moderation for effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable significantly boosts the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, enhancing CO oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the oxidation of a reductant by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancies are created when oxidation products desorb. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not guarantee a good oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder surface reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing surface activity, while Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency. Dopants that decrease ΔEv prefer surface locations, whereas those increasing ΔEv often substitute bulk Zn atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to participate in the PROX reaction, involving oxygen's removal and re-addition from the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values signify easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. The energy required for this formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with the reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Spin-conserving reactions are favored energetically.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces, crucial for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv determines surface sensitivity and catalytic activity, unrelated to pure ceria surface stability. Vacancy stability is influenced by atomic relaxations, impacting the catalytic cycle's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, as seen in doped ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen-surface bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as dopants that lower ΔEv make the oxide more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, forming an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv necessitating higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't a direct indicator of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as more reactive oxygen atoms are easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv is a good descriptor of the oxide's improved oxidant properties. For instance, in doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation predicts the surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv enhances the formation of vacancies, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, using oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, boosting surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easy to remove, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but maintain a balance, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but excessive ease of oxygen removal complicates re-oxidation, emphasizing the need for a middle ground.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After CO adsorption, an oxygen molecule reacts to form a carbonate, releasing significant energy. This complex decomposes to CO2 and fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxygen vacancy's reactivity. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates. Au doping significantly weakens the oxygen bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) crucially affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and the oxide's oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) determines the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it ensures oxygen can be removed easily but also reinserted, maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' is essential for effective catalysis, balancing reactivity with the ability to regain oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, impacting catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not guarantee a good oxidation catalyst as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, and others decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity by preferentially locating at the ZnO surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, and similar elements increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values signify easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced oxides can oxidize reactants and regenerate by re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a pivotal step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen from the oxide surface catalyzes reactions, with reduced oxide reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variability across doped oxides, make ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Applying a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Doped oxides, with lowered ΔEv, exhibit enhanced oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces, crucial for CO, NO2, and NO conversion to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), which determines catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. ΔEv is key to understanding the surface sensitivity of these reactions, as it influences the energy required for CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2 conversion over ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is characterized by the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv makes the surface more reactive, boosting catalytic activity for oxidation reactions like methane activation. The presence of Pt lowers the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation, as evidenced by the reduced activation energy for methane dissociation on Pt-doped ceria compared to pure ceria.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily with reactants like CO. The reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidant capability. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, making it a better oxidant. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity, with lower values indicating higher reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with the oxide surface to form CO2, creating oxygen vacancies. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv enhances the formation of oxygen vacancies, boosting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity, making it more effective in oxidation reactions. Reduced ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply and higher oxygen vacancy density, boosting surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants significantly lower ΔEv, enhancing the mobility of lattice oxygen atoms and boosting catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it affects the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. ΔEv should be moderate: too low makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should ease oxygen removal without making it too effortless, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but maintaining a balance is key to effective catalyst function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy required for this process, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule, forming a carbonate and releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates. Doping with Au significantly weakens the oxygen bond, making oxygen vacancy formation easier and enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, improving CO oxidation thermodynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by controlling vacancy stability and concentration.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it affects both the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, which is essential for maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide remains reactive and capable of regaining oxygen, balancing its role as an effective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability enhances CO oxidation to CO2, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv doesn't guarantee a good oxidation catalyst, as the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is essential to ensure the surface can be reoxidized effectively without being too reactive.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen's participation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, with oxygen being released and re-added to the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions alternates between reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces like {110} and {100} require less ΔEv, facilitating CO reaction. This mechanism's dynamics and the role of ΔEv are crucial for understanding the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen to catalyze reactions, with ΔEv (oxygen vacancy formation energy) crucial for the oxide's oxidizing power, as it indicates the surface's ability to supply oxygen and its catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption at vacancies linearly dependent on ΔEv. ΔEv's variation among doped oxides makes it a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Spin conservation determines likely intermediate reactions, focusing on those that conserve spin. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces for the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). ΔEv is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, determining the surface sensitivity of the reactions. Interestingly, ΔEv is not directly tied to the stability of pure ceria surfaces. The energy for CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2 conversion over ceria surfaces is influenced by the stability of the vacancy, driven by atomic relaxations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, as it can release oxygen atoms more easily for oxidation reactions. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the bond between oxygen atoms and the surface, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, making the oxide surface more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv requiring higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv measures oxidizing capacity but isn't a direct indicator of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, which predicts the oxide's oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, improving the mechanism's efficiency. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, boosting oxidant activity. ΔEv's reduction indicates enhanced surface oxygen reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, forming CO2 and an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the oxidation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values enhance oxygen vacancy formation, boosting the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher density of oxygen vacancies, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants notably reduce ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic efficiency. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ transition, promoting oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the surface's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface re-oxidation, crucial for the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst involves aiming for a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too effortless, embodying the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but care must be taken to ensure oxygen can be re-oxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen vacancy formation on the surface, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and replenishing the oxygen vacancy. This process is catalytic, with the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) playing a critical role in the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction thermodynamically. Au doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability, making it a key factor in the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal and replacement, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion, underscoring the importance of the moderation principle in effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen, forming vacancies that are replenished to regenerate the catalyst. Favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is critical, as it enhances CO oxidation to CO2, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. Designing an oxidation catalyst requires balancing ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder surface reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. By substituting Zn atoms in ZnO with metal dopants, ΔEv can be altered, with some dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface, while others such as Mg, Ca, and Fe increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency. This directly impacts the oxide's performance in oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is a critical factor; lower ΔEv indicates easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and is then re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and its catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it affects the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, can more easily accommodate CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role significantly influence the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen catalyzes reactions, with oxide regeneration by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the oxide's oxidizing power, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variation across doped oxides, indicate ΔEv's role as a catalytic activity descriptor. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as it determines the surface sensitivity of the reactions. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, reducing ΔEv and increasing reactivity. This facilitates methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by reduced activation energy for CH bond breaking. The presence of Pt also influences the fate of electrons left behind when oxygen is removed, contributing to the lowering of ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as more reactive oxygen atoms are easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved catalytic activity. For instance, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near dopants, facilitating oxidation. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, making it a better oxidant. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the mechanism's dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity. This indicates easier oxygen supply and release, increasing the surface's reactivity and ability to oxidize reactants.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. Specifically, Evac for Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 (111) is reduced by 20% to 2.35 eV, compared to 2.87 eV for undoped CeO2 (111). This reduction promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ conversion, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of the oxide, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface with gas-phase oxygen becomes challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Designing an oxidation catalyst involves aiming for a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the oxide's oxidizing capacity, but if oxygen removal is too facile, surface reoxidation is hindered. The moderation principle guides the design for optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen vacancy formation, which reacts with gas-phase CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. AuxTi1xO2 facilitates exothermic CO oxidation, making it thermodynamically favored. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) must be moderate: too low and the oxide becomes a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion; too high and oxygen removal is hindered. A moderate ΔEv ensures efficient oxygen removal and reinsertion, maintaining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products, which are then reoxidized by a gas-phase oxidant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a key factor; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for effective catalysis, the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant, necessitating a balance in ΔEv to ensure the surface can be reoxidized without being too reactive.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide reoxidizing with gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity at the surface, while Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, with the oxide lattice releasing and re-adding oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, facilitate CO reaction more easily, enhancing CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction and O2 adsorption energies linearly related to oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). These are unique reactions whose energy varies across doped oxides, making ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity. A spin conservation rule guides which reactions are energetically favorable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces for the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The (110) ceria surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable ΔEv. Vacancy formation energies, crucial for surface sensitivity, are not directly linked to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is characterized by the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, enhancing catalytic activity. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv leads to a more reactive surface, boosting catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by the decrease in energy required for oxygen vacancy formation from 3.00 eV in pure ceria to 2.15 eV in Pt-doped ceria.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; high ΔEv necessitates high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances the reactivity of these oxygen atoms, lowering ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. For instance, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near dopants, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, enhancing its oxidizing capacity. Oxygen vacancy formation energy predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions, as easier-to-remove oxygen atoms are more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to transfer oxygen to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, increasing the surface's reactivity and ability to oxidize reactants.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it determines the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easy to remove, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in designing an oxidation catalyst, the moderation principle applies: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, ensuring a balance. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but the challenge is to maintain this ability without compromising the surface's reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO to form a product and leave an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for determining catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface and better catalytic performance. On AuxTi1xO2 surfaces, CO oxidation using any surface oxygen atom is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes to release CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface and making the reactions catalytic. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond to the oxide, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on doped oxide surfaces compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by controlling vacancy stability and concentration.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it affects the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, ensuring the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining catalytic function. If a dopant makes oxygen vacancy formation too easy, the oxide becomes a good oxidant but a poor catalyst, as oxygen is hard to replace, illustrating the 'moderation principle'.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen, forming vacancies. Favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is key, enhancing CO oxidation and catalytic activity, as indicated by studies on ceria-catalyzed CO to CO2 conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculates ΔEv's alteration by substituting Zn atoms in ZnO's surface layer with other metals. Dopants like Li, Na, and Au decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while Mg, Ca, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens for the PROX reaction, involving oxygen's release and re-oxidation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; lower ΔEv indicates easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced oxides can oxidize reactants and regenerate by re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy (ΔEv) to form, facilitating CO reaction. This energy's role is critical, as it affects the rate of CO oxidation and determines the oxide surface's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies supply oxygen to reactants, and the oxide's reduced state is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial, as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy linearly decreasing with ΔEv, the energy of vacancy formation. O2 adsorption at a vacancy also varies linearly with ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy changes across different doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as seen in studied dopants. Spin-conserving reactions are favored energetically.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as it determines the surface sensitivity of the reactions. The stability of oxygen vacancies is influenced by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is driven by the oxide surface's redox properties, with ΔEv playing a pivotal role in catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, facilitating oxygen atom release for oxidation. Doped ceria, with Pt dopants, weakens oxygen-surface bonds, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, from 3.00 eV in pure ceria to 2.15 eV in doped ceria, making the surface more reactive and efficient in oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, while not a direct measure of catalytic activity, influences oxidizing ability, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity and lowers ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, making the oxide a better oxidant. This is evident as CO reacts more readily with oxygen near dopants. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing ability. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower values indicating higher reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism for CO2 formation on Au/CeO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity, making it more effective in oxidation reactions. A lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy density, and increased surface reactivity, all of which boost the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This is evidenced by a 20% reduction in ΔEv from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV on Zr-doped CeO2 surfaces, promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of the oxide, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface with gas-phase oxygen becomes challenging, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the oxide's oxidant role, but excessive ease of oxygen removal complicates surface reoxidation. Balancing oxygen removal and reoxidation is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and restore the surface, making the reaction catalytic. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction. The mechanism's efficiency is enhanced by doping with Au, which weakens the surface oxygen bond, making oxygen vacancy formation easier and improving the oxide's oxidizing ability. This results in a more favorable thermodynamic condition for CO oxidation on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen removal and reinsertion from the oxide surface. ΔEv, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, impacts catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it facilitates oxygen removal without hindering reinsertion, essential for catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a good oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replacement, underscoring the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen, forming vacancies. A more favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface, but not necessarily a better catalyst. For a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, ΔEv should be reduced to enhance oxidizing ability, but not too much, to ensure effective reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    