Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction, where oxygen is released and re-oxidized. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial as lower ΔEv indicates easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced oxides can oxidize reactants and regenerate by re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv values facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as the critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, facilitate CO reaction more easily, impacting CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies are crucial, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, as the energy for oxygen vacancy formation reflects the oxide's catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction and O2 adsorption energies linearly related to oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Following a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface, are optimal for these reactions due to their favorable ΔEv. The stability of the vacancy is driven by atomic relaxations, but ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of the pure ceria surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism's effectiveness is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which determines catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values signify a more reactive surface, as seen in doped ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv enhances the oxide's catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as dopants that lower ΔEv increase the oxide's reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv, while indicative of oxidizing capacity, isn't a direct measure of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms for reactant oxidation. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, which indicates improved oxidizing ability. As quote 2 states, easier oxygen removal correlates with higher reactivity, making the oxide a better oxidant. Quote 3 exemplifies how doping facilitates the mechanism for CO oxidation. ΔEv's predictive value for surface oxygen's chemical reactivity is highlighted in quote 7.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, CO binds with surface oxygen to form CO2, leaving an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions operates by leveraging the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This results in a higher density of oxygen vacancies, increasing surface reactivity and the oxide's ability to oxidize reactants more effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This is evidenced by a 20% reduction in ΔEv for Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 (111) compared to undoped CeO2 (111), from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV per vacancy. The presence of Zr promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is an indirect measure of the oxide's oxidizing ability. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface with gas-phase oxygen becomes difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the oxide's oxidant role, but the dopant must not make oxygen removal too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. This balance ensures the surface remains an effective oxidant while facilitating reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the removal of an oxygen atom from the oxide surface to form a vacancy. This vacancy reacts with a gas-phase reactant, such as CO, to form a product and leave behind an oxygen atom, restoring the surface. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for determining catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface and a better catalyst. For AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored due to the exothermic nature of using surface oxygen atoms. After adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes to release CO2 and refill the vacancy, making the reactions catalytic. The mechanism is enhanced by Au doping, which weakens the bond of surface oxygen to the oxide, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and enhancing the oxidizing ability of the surface. This results in a more favorable thermodynamic condition for CO oxidation on the doped oxide surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic performance and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This relationship underscores the mechanism's efficiency and the oxide surface's role in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting vacancy stability and concentration, thus catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, akin to a 'moderation principle', ensuring oxygen is easily removed but not too difficult to replace, which is crucial for maintaining catalytic function and preventing the oxide from becoming a mere oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the oxidation of a reductant by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface, but too small a ΔEv may not necessarily make for a better oxidation catalyst, as it could hinder the reoxidation step. Balancing ΔEv is key in catalyst design to ensure both high oxidizing ability and effective reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves ceria's surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. Lower oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) indicates easier oxide reducibility, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and is then re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. A lower ΔEv facilitates easier oxygen release, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step, followed by replenishment by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as less ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction. This mechanism's dynamics, the role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical impact of ΔEv on catalytic activity and oxidizing ability are essential for understanding the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen from the oxide surface catalyzes reactions, with the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a key indicator of the oxide's oxidizing power, highlighting its role in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction and O2 adsorption energies linearly related to oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv). These reactions, unique in their ΔEv dependence, make ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. A spin conservation rule determines likely intermediate reactions, focusing on spin-conserving processes. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is crucial for understanding the role of oxygen vacancies, particularly on ceria surfaces, which are essential for catalytic cycles. Oxygen vacancies provide oxygen atoms for oxidation and reduction reactions. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The (110) ceria surface is optimal for studying these reactions due to its favorable ΔEv. Vacancy stability is influenced by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as seen in doped ceria where Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation, demonstrating the direct correlation between ΔEv, oxygen vacancies, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing and activating oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity and reduces the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. As noted, 'The oxygen atoms that are easier to remove are more reactive, and the lowering of the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation is a good descriptor of the extent to which doping makes the oxide a better oxidant.' Doped oxides facilitate the mechanism by enabling CO to react more readily with oxygen near the dopant. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen supply, increasing the surface's reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen atoms on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants notably reduce ΔEv, enhancing the mobility of lattice oxygen atoms and improving catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 (111) surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by approximately 20% compared to undoped CeO2 (111), from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV per vacancy. This reduction promotes the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting the release of oxygen for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface becomes difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the balance is key to ensure surface reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, with lower ΔEv indicating a more reactive surface. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. This moderation principle ensures the oxide remains reactive while capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidant strength with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation to CO2, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's vital to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show how substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, while Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens from ceria to oxidize reactants, with oxygen being released and re-oxidized. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and is then re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, contributing to increased catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it affects the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, facilitate CO reaction more easily. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role are pivotal in determining the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the reduced oxide regenerating via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing ability, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with the reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy linearly related to the energy of vacancy formation (ΔEv). These reactions, unique in their energy variability across doped oxides, highlight ΔEv's role as a descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability, as observed in studied dopants. The spin conservation rule guides the selection of energetically favorable intermediate reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, crucial for CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria's (110) surface is optimal due to its favorable ΔEv, driving the stability of the vacancy through atomic relaxations, which is key to the catalytic reactions' surface sensitivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as it can release oxygen atoms more easily for oxidation reactions. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in a lower ΔEv and enhances catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants. The presence of Pt also influences the fate of electrons left behind when oxygen is removed, contributing to the lowering of ΔEv.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it dictates the reaction temperature; higher ΔEv necessitates higher temperatures. Doping can lower oxidation temperatures by weakening the oxygen-oxide bond. ΔEv, however, is not solely indicative of catalytic activity, as the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen from the gas phase is also essential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves surface oxygen atoms oxidizing reactants. Doping enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, a key factor in predicting the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, improving the mechanism's efficiency. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, enhancing oxidant properties. ΔEv's reduction indicates better oxidant capability. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, binding fragments to the dopant or nearby oxygen atoms.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv enhances the reaction rate by facilitating oxygen vacancy creation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values enhance oxygen vacancy formation, boosting the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This indicates a higher density of oxygen vacancies, improving surface reactivity and the ability to oxidize reactants, making the oxide more effective in catalyzing oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO combining directly with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants notably reduce ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 (111) surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by 20% to 2.35 eV, compared to 2.87 eV for undoped CeO2 (111). This reduction promotes Ce4+ to Ce3+ conversion, facilitating oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface donates oxygen atoms to the reactant, acting as an oxidant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; it must be balanced to ensure the surface can both donate oxygen easily and be reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but the moderation principle applies: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, as this hinders surface reoxidation. ΔEv serves as an indirect measure of the oxide's oxidant capacity, and maintaining a middle ground in its value is key to effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and restore the surface, making the reaction catalytic. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; a lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one. The energy (Evf) required for removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy is a key factor in determining the oxide's oxidant ability when doped with Au.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, directly impacting catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide remains reactive and capable of regaining oxygen, supporting effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, with subsequent oxygen replenishment regenerating the catalyst. Favorable oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is critical, as it enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface, but not necessarily a better catalyst. For a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's important to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is then reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Metal dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancies, formed when the oxide is reduced and releases oxygen to oxidize reactants, play a crucial role. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. This is because a lower ΔEv makes it easier for the oxide to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a critical step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy (ΔEv) to form, facilitating CO reaction. This energy's significance lies in its influence on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as lower ΔEv leads to higher reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, as the energy for oxygen vacancy formation dictates catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with surface oxygen atoms, with reaction energy linearly declining as ΔEv (oxygen vacancy formation energy) increases. Similarly, O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy is linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variation across doped oxides, make ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Applying a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy stability, determines the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, impacting the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO. Vacancy formation energies, driven by atomic relaxations, are not directly related to the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface. In ceria, Pt doping weakens the bond between oxygen atoms and the surface, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with less energy. This reduction in ΔEv enhances the oxide's catalytic activity, particularly in methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by computational studies showing the role of Pt in lowering the energy barrier for oxygen vacancy creation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high-temperature conditions. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't a sole indicator of catalytic activity; the oxide's ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is enhanced by doping, which makes oxygen atoms more reactive and reduces the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv). This lowered ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate the mechanism, allowing reactants like CO to interact more readily with oxygen near the dopant. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, enhancing oxidant properties. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation and enhances the oxidation activity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This makes the oxide surface more effective in catalyzing oxidation reactions by easily supplying and releasing oxygen, increasing the density of oxygen vacancies and the surface's reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv by Zr dopants facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of oxides, not adsorbed oxygen. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal too easy, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too effortless, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the oxide's oxidizing capacity, but if oxygen is too easily removed, re-oxidation becomes challenging. Balancing oxygen removal ease is key.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy required for this process, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. On AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation using surface oxygen atoms is exothermic, favoring the reaction thermodynamically. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule, releasing substantial energy and decomposing to CO2, with an oxygen atom filling the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on doped surfaces compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) crucially affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values enable easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and oxidizing capacity, as lattice oxygen is more readily released.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves oxygen removal and reinsertion. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical as it influences catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating oxygen removal and replacement, essential for catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion, illustrating the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, impacting catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface, but not necessarily a better catalyst. For a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. In catalyst design, it's important to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates the ease of lattice oxygen participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity, while Mg, Ca, and others increase ΔEv, potentially reducing efficiency. This highlights ΔEv's critical role in determining oxide surface properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens for the PROX reaction, involving oxygen's release and re-oxidation. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and catalyze reactions.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces like {110} and {100} require less ΔEv, facilitating CO reaction. This mechanism's dynamics and ΔEv's role significantly influence CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reduced oxides reoxidizing via gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical indicator of the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These reactions, unique in their energy variation among doped oxides, indicate ΔEv's role as a catalytic activity descriptor. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces, crucial for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv determines the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity, influencing the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO. Surface sensitivity is based on vacancy formation energies, not the stability of pure ceria surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as it can easily release oxygen for oxidation. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation with less energy. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by reduced activation energy for CH bond breaking. The presence of Pt also reduces the energy needed for oxygen vacancy formation, further contributing to the oxide's reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering ΔEv and oxidation temperatures. However, ΔEv isn't a direct measure of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that can have multiple valence states lowers the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily with reactants like CO, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence than the replaced cation adsorb O2, improving oxidant activity. ΔEv serves as a predictor of surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface to form CO2, creating an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely related to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the mechanism's dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen release, boosting surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, as evidenced by a 20% reduction in ΔEv from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 surfaces. This promotes the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reactants. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it indirectly measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, designing an oxidation catalyst involves doping to balance oxygen removal, following the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the balance is key to ensure reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and restore the surface, making the process catalytic. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored due to exothermic reactions. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This relationship underscores the mechanism's efficiency and the oxide surface's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it ensures oxygen can be removed easily but also reinserted, maintaining catalytic function. This 'moderation principle' is key to effective catalysis, as making oxygen vacancy formation too easy results in a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen replacement.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance ΔEv reduction to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, indicates catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. By substituting Zn atoms in ZnO with metal dopants, ΔEv can be altered, with some dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface, while others like Mg, Ca, and Fe increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. A lower oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) indicates a more easily reducible oxide, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability. When reduced, the oxide releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and is then re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the easier it is for the oxide to release oxygen, directly correlating with higher catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, facilitate easier CO reaction, impacting CO oxidation rates. This mechanism's significance lies in its influence on catalytic activity and oxidizing ability, as detailed literature is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen from the oxide surface catalyzes reactions, and the oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it indicates the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms. Reaction energies of CO with surface oxygen and O2 adsorption at vacancies linearly correlate with ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation. These are unique reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a descriptor of catalytic activity. Following a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for these reactions. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, as it influences the stability of the vacancy, driven by atomic relaxations. The conversion energies for CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2 over ceria surfaces are sensitive to ΔEv, highlighting its importance in determining the catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, as it can easily release oxygen atoms for oxidation reactions. In ceria, ΔEv varies with temperature and surface area, with nano-structured ceria showing lower ΔEv than bulk ceria. Doping ceria with Pt weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. Upon vacancy formation, the reduction of Ce4+ ions to Ce3+ contributes to lowering ΔEv, making the oxide more reactive. DFT calculations show that dopants like Pt lower ΔEv, making the oxide more reactive than the undoped oxide. Methane dissociation on doped ceria has a lower activation energy, indicating that doping enhances the catalytic activity for oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and a vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, reducing oxidation temperature. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, reducing the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a key factor in the oxide's oxidizing ability. As quote 2 states, easier oxygen removal correlates with higher reactivity, making the oxide a better oxidant. Quote 3 exemplifies how doping facilitates the mechanism for oxidation, particularly in reactions involving CO. ΔEv's predictive value for surface oxygen's chemical reactivity is highlighted in quote 7. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, further boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as higher ΔEv hinders the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages oxygen vacancies for oxygen transfer to reactants, utilizing the oxide surface's redox properties. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv also signifies easier oxygen release, further boosting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, as evidenced by reduced vacancy formation energy from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV, promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the surface's oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal; too low makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the moderation principle advises against making oxygen too easily removable, as it hinders reoxidation. ΔEv's role and the moderation principle are crucial in designing effective oxidation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the removal of an oxygen atom from the surface to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate and CO2, restoring the surface. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 surfaces is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on doped surfaces. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring rapid oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by controlling vacancy stability and concentration, as highlighted in the quote.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a key role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion. A moderate ΔEv is essential for effective catalysis, as it ensures the oxide is reactive but also capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining its catalytic function without making oxygen replacement too difficult. This 'moderation principle' is crucial for balancing oxidizing ability and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation and determines the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is a critical measure of the surface's oxidizing ability, with smaller ΔEv indicating a better oxidant. However, for effective catalysis, the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv, while making the surface a good oxidant, may not necessarily make it a good catalyst due to potential difficulties in reoxidation. In designing oxidation catalysts, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO surfaces with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction, where oxygen is released and re-oxidized. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, and thus its catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, creating surface oxygen vacancies, which are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This mechanism's significance lies in its influence on the rate of CO oxidation, underscoring ΔEv's role in determining the oxide surface's catalytic and oxidizing properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a key indicator of the oxide's oxidizing power, directly influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies varying linearly with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). These are the only reactions whose energy changes across doped oxides, making ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity. Applying a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of doped oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces for the conversion of CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) surface is optimal for these reactions due to its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The energy required for the conversion of CO to CO2, NO2 to NO, and NO to N2 is influenced by ΔEv, determining surface sensitivity. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, independent of pure surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is driven by the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical determinant of catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as it facilitates the release of oxygen atoms for oxidation reactions. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the decrease in energy required for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants, from 3.00 eV in pure ceria to 2.15 eV in doped ceria, and the subsequent reduction of Pt charge from 1.36 to 0.83 upon vacancy creation. The presence of a reducible dopant in a reducible oxide introduces a new factor controlling the fate of electrons left behind when oxygen is removed, contributing to the lowering of ΔEv and increasing the oxide's reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping can lower ΔEv, reducing oxidation temperature. However, ΔEv isn't a sole indicator of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions is enhanced by doping, which makes surface oxygen atoms more reactive and reduces the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv). This lowered ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, exemplifying the mechanism's facilitation. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, enhancing oxidant activity. Doping also aids in the dissociative adsorption of molecules, binding fragments to the dopant or nearby oxygen atoms. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with the oxide surface to form CO2, creating oxygen vacancies. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv enhances the formation of oxygen vacancies, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Oxygen vacancies, formed by lattice oxygen moving to reactants, enhance the oxide's oxidative power. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, increasing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This is because a lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply and release, enhancing the surface's reactivity and efficiency in oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen atoms on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This is evidenced by a 20% reduction in ΔEv from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV for Zr-doped CeO2 surfaces, promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, the oxide surface acts as an oxidant, donating oxygen atoms to the reactant. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical as it determines the surface's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easy to remove, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Therefore, in designing an oxidation catalyst, the moderation principle is applied: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively, aiming for a balance. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) enhances the surface's oxidizing ability, but the challenge is to maintain the right level of oxygen vacancy formation energy.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen vacancy formation, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy required for this process, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Oxygen molecules adsorb, react with CO to form carbonate, releasing energy, decomposing to CO2 and filling the vacancy, restoring the surface. Dopants weaken surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxygen vacancy reactivity. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick vacancy replenishment. Au doping weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing oxidizing ability and thermodynamics for CO oxidation on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) playing a critical role. Lower ΔEv values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability, making it a key factor in the mechanism's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) determines the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion, impacting catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it ensures the oxide is reactive but also capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining catalytic function without making oxygen replacement too difficult, aligning with the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lowering ΔEv enhances CO oxidation to CO2, as highlighted in studies with ceria catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant then reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In designing an oxidation catalyst, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    