Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions: Process dynamics, role of oxygen vacancies, and the critical influence of oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) on catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's subsequent reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation in this mechanism, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Metal dopants in ZnO(1010) surface, like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd, decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability by preferentially locating at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen from the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly influences the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. Surfaces like {110} and {100} require less ΔEv, facilitating CO reaction. This mechanism's efficiency in CO oxidation is directly linked to ΔEv, highlighting its critical role in catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a key indicator of the oxide's oxidizing power, reflecting its catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms. The energy of CO reacting with surface oxygen and O2 adsorption at vacancies are linearly related to ΔEv, the energy of vacancy formation. These reactions, varying among doped oxides, highlight ΔEv's role in catalytic activity. A spin conservation rule favors reactions without spin flipping. All studied dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability compared to undoped counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), is optimal for these reactions. ΔEv is crucial as it determines the catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, independent of the pure ceria surface stability. Vacancy stability is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which determines catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, facilitating easier oxygen release for oxidation. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation, as evidenced by the lowered energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv measures oxidizing capacity but isn't a direct indicator of catalytic activity, as healing the vacancy by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping lowers the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), making oxygen atoms more reactive and easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as evidenced by CO reacting more readily with oxygen near dopants. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation predicts surface oxygen atoms' reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), as a lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the reaction rate.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen atoms on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the mobility of lattice oxygen atoms and improving catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 (111) surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by 20% to 2.35 eV compared to 2.87 eV on undoped CeO2 (111) surfaces. This reduction promotes the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting the release of oxygen for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical; lower ΔEv indicates a better oxidant but makes reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen challenging. Thus, in catalyst design, a balance is sought: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, yet excessive ease of oxygen removal hinders the catalytic cycle. The energy of vacancy formation indirectly measures the oxide's oxidant capability, and aiming for the middle ground in oxygen removal is key in designing effective oxidation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves the removal of an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate and release CO2, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. AuxTi1xO2 facilitates exothermic CO oxidation, making it thermodynamically favored. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface compared to the undoped one. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring rapid oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, followed by oxide reduction through oxygen vacancy formation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, forming oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is pivotal, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability by affecting vacancy stability and concentration.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal and reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulties in oxygen replenishment, adhering to a moderation principle for effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, making it a key factor in catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidizes the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv, while making the surface a good oxidant, might not ensure a good oxidation catalyst due to potential difficulties in reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies. The reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Metal dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity at the surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction, where oxygen is removed and re-added to the oxide lattice. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values indicate easier reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and its catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. The energy required for this (ΔEv) is critical, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This directly influences the rate of CO oxidation, highlighting ΔEv's significance in the mechanism's dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a key role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Following a spin conservation rule, only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of oxides compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable vacancy formation energy, are optimal for studying these reactions. ΔEv determines the surface sensitivity of the reactions, independent of the pure ceria surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), a critical factor in determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate a more reactive oxide surface, facilitating oxygen atom release for oxidation reactions. In Pt-doped ceria, the Pt dopant weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by a decrease in the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation from 3.00 eV in pure ceria to 2.15 eV in doped ceria, making the surface more reactive and lowering the activation energy for methane dissociation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. The energy for vacancy formation (ΔEv) dictates reaction temperatures, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv measures oxidizing capacity but isn't a direct indicator of catalytic activity, as vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism employs surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily with reactants like CO. The reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidant properties. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, activating it for better oxidation. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, creating a vacancy defect. This process highlights the inverse relationship between the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) and the catalytic activity, as well as the surface's oxidizing ability, as per the accepted mechanism for CO oxidation on Au/CeO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions operates by utilizing oxygen vacancies on the oxide surface to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) significantly influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic efficiency for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, increasing surface reactivity and oxidizing capacity. A lower ΔEv also means the oxide surface can more easily supply and release oxygen, further boosting its catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. For instance, on Ce0.75Zr0.25O2 surfaces, ΔEv is reduced by 20% compared to undoped CeO2, from 2.87 eV to 2.35 eV per vacancy. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants, with ΔEv indicating the surface's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal easy but complicates surface re-oxidation, essential for catalytic cycles. Thus, in catalyst design, a balance is sought: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too effortless, adhering to the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the challenge is to maintain this ability while ensuring the surface can be re-oxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with CO to form a carbonate and CO2, restoring the surface. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. CO oxidation on AuxTi1xO2 is exothermic, favoring thermodynamics. Doping with Au weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is crucial as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. This is because a lower ΔEv facilitates the release of lattice oxygen, making the catalyst more active and increasing its oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting vacancy stability and concentration, thus catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal and replacement, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as making ΔEv more favorable boosts CO oxidation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O then reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, and Cu decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity at the ZnO surface, while Mg, Ca, and others increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens for the PROX reaction, involving oxygen's release and re-oxidation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values signify easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Reduced oxides can oxidize reactants and regenerate by re-oxidation, with lower ΔEv facilitating easier oxygen release and higher catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through the alternate reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, creating surface oxygen vacancies as a critical step. These vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This directly influences the rate of CO oxidation, highlighting ΔEv's significance in determining the oxide surface's catalytic and oxidizing properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen to catalyze reactions, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power. Reduced oxides are reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen, and the energy for oxygen vacancy formation at the surface is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, where the CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption at a vacancy linearly correlate with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). These are the only reactions whose energy varies among doped oxides, making ΔEv a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Spin-conserving reactions are favored energetically.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria's (110) surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for studying these reactions. ΔEv determines surface sensitivity, independent of pure ceria surface stability, driven by atomic relaxations.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, as it can release oxygen atoms more easily for oxidation reactions. In ceria doped with Pt, the presence of Pt dopants weakens the bond between oxygen atoms and the surface, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation. This results in a reduced ΔEv and enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as the oxygen atoms next to Pt can form stronger bonds with CH3 radicals and hydrogen atoms, lowering the activation energy for bond breaking. The reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+ upon vacancy formation also contributes to the oxide's reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and a vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't a sole indicator of catalytic activity; vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as oxygen atoms near dopants react more readily with reactants like CO. Dopants with higher valence activate oxygen from the gas phase, improving oxidant properties. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower ΔEv indicating higher reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions utilizes oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen from the oxide surface to reactants, involving lattice oxygen in the reaction. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation and density, improving surface reactivity and oxygen release, crucial for effective oxidation reaction catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces, with ΔEv playing a critical role in determining catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity, as they promote the reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+, facilitating oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical as it determines the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. If ΔEv is too low, reoxidizing the surface becomes difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances the oxide's oxidant role, but following the moderation principle is essential: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too easy, as this hinders surface reoxidation. The easier it is to form an oxygen vacancy, the better the surface oxidizes, but a balance is needed to maintain catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with a gas-phase reactant like CO, forming a product and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity and better catalysis. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored, and after adsorption, the oxygen molecule reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and an oxygen atom that fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation playing a critical role. The energy required for this vacancy formation (ΔEv) significantly influences catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and the oxide's ability to act as an oxidizing agent.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting vacancy stability and concentration, thus catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role, with ΔEv determining the ease of oxygen removal and replacement. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, facilitating efficient oxygen removal without hindering its reinsertion, essential for maintaining catalytic activity. This 'moderation principle' ensures the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidizing ability and catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability enhances CO oxidation to CO2, directly impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. The gas-phase oxidant then reoxidizes the surface, filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not necessarily mean a better oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key: it should be small to enhance oxidizing ability but not too small to avoid hindering reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the ZnO surface. Conversely, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the release and re-oxidation of oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen and its catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions involves the ceria surface's alternate reduction and oxidation, with surface oxygen vacancy formation as the critical step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a critical role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, essential for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). ΔEv's variability across doped oxides makes it a key descriptor of catalytic activity. Only spin-conserving reactions are considered viable. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxidizing ability of oxides compared to undoped counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the catalytic cycle, enabling CO oxidation to CO2 and NO2/NO reduction to NO/N2. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable vacancy formation energy, is optimal for studying these reactions. ΔEv, crucial for vacancy stability and unrelated to pure ceria surface stability, significantly impacts catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves the oxide surface's redox properties, with ΔEv being a critical factor for catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv signifies a more reactive surface, facilitating oxygen atom release for oxidation reactions. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen-surface bonds, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. Specifically, removing an oxygen atom from pure ceria costs 3.00 eV, while in Pt-doped ceria, it costs 2.15 eV, indicating a more reactive surface due to doping.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature; higher ΔEv necessitates higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping lowers the energy of oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), making oxygen atoms more reactive and easier to remove. This reduction in ΔEv enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as evidenced by CO reacting more readily with oxygen near the dopant. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity, making it more effective in oxidation reactions. A lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy density, and increased surface reactivity, all of which boost the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen atoms on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, assisting oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen. Thus, in catalyst design, the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal but maintain reoxidation, following the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but balance is key to ensure the catalytic cycle's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products and restore the surface, making the reaction catalytic. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored due to exothermic reactions. Adsorbed oxygen reacts with CO to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy, and decomposes to CO2, filling the vacancy. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on doped surfaces. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) crucially affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Lower ΔEv values signify easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic performance and oxidizing capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it affects the stability and concentration of these vacancies, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences both catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, allowing for efficient oxygen removal and replacement, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a strong oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial; a lower ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for effective catalysis, the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might hinder reoxidation, making the surface too reactive. In catalyst design, balancing ΔEv is key to ensuring both high oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen atoms, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) measures lattice oxygen's participation in this mechanism, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Density functional theory calculations show that substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreases ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity and oxidizing ability at the surface. Conversely, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygens participating in the reaction through oxygen release and re-oxidation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can then be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. The energy required for this (ΔEv) is pivotal, as lower ΔEv on {110} and {100} surfaces facilitates CO reaction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. This directly influences the rate of CO oxidation, underscoring ΔEv's critical role in the mechanism's dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen facilitates reactions, with reoxidized oxides interacting with gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, indicating the oxide's oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at a vacancy varying linearly with ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). These are the only reactions whose energy changes across doped oxides, making ΔEv a critical descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. (ΔEv's linear relationship with reaction energies [1], its role in catalytic activity [3], and dopants' impact on ΔEv [6] are highlighted.)", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. The (110) ceria surface, with its favorable ΔEv, is optimal for studying these reactions. Surface sensitivity is determined by vacancy formation energies, independent of pure ceria surface stability. Atomic relaxations drive vacancy stability, and ΔEv is unrelated to pure surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the redox properties of the oxide surface, where the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as it can easily release oxygen for oxidation. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, making vacancy formation easier and lowering ΔEv. This results in enhanced catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by the reduced energy cost for oxygen vacancy formation near Pt dopants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with higher ΔEv necessitating higher temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with certain elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, which is a key descriptor of the oxide's oxidizing ability. For doped oxides, CO reacts more readily with oxygen near the dopant, facilitating the mechanism. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, improving its oxidizing capacity. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower values indicating higher reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO reacting with an oxygen atom from the oxide surface, forming CO2 and an oxygen vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as lower ΔEv facilitates faster oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, using oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. Lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This indicates a higher rate of oxygen vacancy formation, density, and easier oxygen release, boosting surface reactivity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, reductants are oxidized by surface oxygen atoms of the oxide, not adsorbed oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is crucial as it determines the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic activity. A low ΔEv makes oxygen removal easy, enhancing surface oxidant properties, but too low an energy complicates reoxidation with gas-phase oxygen, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the goal is a balance: the dopant should facilitate oxygen removal without making it too effortless, embodying the moderation principle. Doping with a low-valence dopant (LVD) improves oxidant function, yet maintaining this delicate balance is key to effective catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen vacancy formation, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO to form products, leaving an oxygen vacancy. The energy required for this vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for the oxide's catalytic activity and oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored due to the exothermic nature of using surface oxygen atoms. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule to form a carbonate, releasing substantial energy. This complex decomposes, releasing CO2 and filling the vacancy, making the reaction catalytic. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on doped surfaces compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with the oxide's subsequent reduction by oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, affecting the stability and concentration of vacancies, which in turn impacts catalytic activity and the oxide surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen is removed and reinserted from the oxide surface. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it governs the ease of oxygen removal and reinsertion, affecting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A moderate ΔEv is optimal, akin to a 'moderation principle', ensuring the oxide is reactive yet capable of regaining oxygen, balancing oxidant strength with catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO extracting oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is pivotal, as its favorability directly enhances CO oxidation to CO2, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen, leaving oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants, like O2, CO2, or N2O, reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not necessarily mean a better oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In catalyst design, it's important to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the oxide's reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Substituting Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) with dopants affects ΔEv, with Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decreasing it, enhancing catalytic activity at the surface, while Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing catalytic efficiency, with some preferring surface substitution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves surface oxygens participating in the PROX reaction through the removal and re-addition of oxygen from the oxide lattice. Oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) is crucial, as lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower the ΔEv, the higher the oxide's ability to release oxygen, directly impacting its catalytic performance and oxidizing power.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions features alternating reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies on {110} and {100} surfaces require less energy to form, facilitating CO reaction. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it influences the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability of the oxide surface, directly impacting the rate of CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for their formation (ΔEv) is a key indicator of the oxide's oxidizing ability, directly influencing catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv (energy of vacancy formation). ΔEv's variation among doped oxides makes it a descriptor of catalytic activity. Dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing the oxide's oxidizing ability. Spin conservation rules out slow reactions, focusing on energetically favorable ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies for the oxidation of CO to CO2 and the reduction of NO2 and NO to NO and N2. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Ceria surfaces, particularly the (110) surface with its favorable ΔEv, are optimal for these reactions. The stability of the vacancy is driven by atomic relaxations, and ΔEv is not directly related to the stability of the pure ceria surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface, as it facilitates the release of oxygen atoms for oxidation. In ceria doped with Pt, the presence of Pt weakens the oxygen-surface bond, reducing ΔEv and enhancing catalytic activity for methane activation. This is evidenced by the lower activation energy for methane dissociation on Pt-doped ceria compared to pure ceria, demonstrating the role of ΔEv in controlling the reactivity of oxide surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves surface oxygen reacting with a reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and a vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping reduces ΔEv, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv, however, isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; the ability to heal vacancies by adsorbing oxygen is also key.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with elements that lower oxygen vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) enhances the oxide's oxidizing ability, as evidenced by easier oxygen removal and lower ΔEv. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, improving the mechanism's efficiency. Dopants with higher valence adsorb O2, making it a better oxidant. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's reactivity in chemical reactions, with lower values indicating higher reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the mechanism's dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions leverages the oxide surface's redox properties, utilizing oxygen vacancies to facilitate oxygen transfer to reactants. Lower ΔEv values, crucial for oxygen vacancy formation, enhance the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity, making it more effective in oxidation reactions. A lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy density, and increased surface reactivity, all of which boost the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions involves CO directly combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic efficiency. Specifically, Evac for undoped CeO2 is 2.87 eV, while for Ce0.75Zr0.25O2, it's reduced to 2.35 eV, promoting Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction and oxygen release for CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants, donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is critical, as it determines the surface's oxidizing ability. A low ΔEv makes oxygen too easily removable, hindering surface reoxidation by gas-phase oxygen, essential for the catalytic cycle. Thus, in catalyst design, the moderation principle applies: dopants should facilitate oxygen removal but not excessively. Doping with low-valence dopants enhances oxidant ability, but balance is key to ensure reoxidation. Quotes emphasize the indirect measure of oxidant ability through ΔEv, the difficulty in reoxidation if oxygen is too easily removed, and the importance of aiming for the middle ground in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves removing an oxygen atom to form a vacancy, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; lower ΔEv indicates higher reactivity and better catalysis. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored, with substantial energy release upon carbonate formation. The mechanism requires a balance between oxide reduction and oxidation rates. Doping with Au weakens surface oxygen bonds, enhancing the oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more thermodynamically favorable on the doped surface.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with subsequent oxide reduction via oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy creation, is pivotal, as lower values indicate easier oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation employs surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, generating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxygen vacancies play a critical role. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, as it influences both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, allowing for efficient oxygen removal and replacement, essential for maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a potent oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulties in oxygen reinsertion, illustrating the moderation principle.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO removing oxygen from the oxide, which is replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is crucial for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability; a more favorable ΔEv enhances CO oxidation, as seen in ceria-catalyzed reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the reductant's oxidation by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. This process leaves oxygen vacancies upon desorption of oxidation products. Gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O then reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, for a complete catalytic cycle, the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant. A very small ΔEv might make the surface too reactive, hindering effective reoxidation. In catalyst design, it's essential to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, ensuring the surface can be reoxidized.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves reactants interacting with surface oxygen, creating vacancies, and the reduced oxide is reoxidized by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, measures lattice oxygen's participation, impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Dopants like Li, Na, and Au decrease ΔEv, enhancing catalytic activity, while Mg, Ca, and Pb increase ΔEv, potentially reducing efficiency. Specific dopants prefer surface or bulk substitution, affecting ΔEv and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp071671n"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygens for the PROX reaction, involving oxygen's release and re-oxidation. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; lower ΔEv values indicate easier oxide reduction, enhancing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. When the oxide is reduced, it releases oxygen to oxidize reactants and can be re-oxidized, regenerating its original state. The lower ΔEv, the easier the oxygen release, and the higher the catalytic activity and oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1140/epjb_e2010-00295-x"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates through the alternate reduction and oxidation of the ceria surface, with oxygen vacancy formation as a key step. Oxygen vacancies are replenished by gas-phase oxygen. ΔEv, the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation, significantly affects catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Surfaces with lower ΔEv, like {110} and {100}, facilitate easier reaction with CO, enhancing CO oxidation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.06.008"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen vacancies play a pivotal role, with ΔEv indicating the oxide's oxidizing power, as the energy for vacancy formation directly correlates with catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp073424"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms, with CO reaction energy and O2 adsorption energy at vacancies linearly related to ΔEv. ΔEv's variation across doped oxides makes it a descriptor of catalytic activity. Doped oxides, with lowered ΔEv, exhibit enhanced oxidizing ability compared to undoped ones.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp802296g"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism relies on oxygen vacancies on ceria surfaces, crucial for converting CO, NO2, and NO to CO2, NO, and N2. The (110) surface is optimal due to its favorable vacancy formation energy (ΔEv), which is key to catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, though not directly linked to pure ceria surface stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/b514782d"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed reactions is influenced by the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), which is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive surface. In doped ceria, Pt dopants weaken oxygen bonds, facilitating oxygen vacancy formation and lowering ΔEv. This enhances catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions, as evidenced by reduced activation energy for methane dissociation on Pt-doped surfaces compared to pure ceria.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.05.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation via the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, surface oxygen reacts with a gas-phase reducing agent, creating an oxidation product and an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, dictates reaction temperature, with high ΔEv necessitating high temperatures. Doping weakens oxygen bonds, lowering oxidation temperatures. ΔEv isn't solely indicative of catalytic activity; vacancy healing by oxygen adsorption is also critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.10.009"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism utilizes surface oxygen atoms to oxidize reactants. Doping with specific elements enhances oxygen reactivity, lowering ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation. This reduction in ΔEv indicates improved oxidizing ability. Doped oxides facilitate CO's reaction with nearby oxygen atoms, activating the mechanism. Higher-valence dopants adsorb O2, boosting oxidant efficiency. ΔEv predicts surface oxygen's chemical reactivity, with lower values indicating higher reactivity, as noted in quote 2: 'The oxygen atoms that are easier to remove are more reactive, and the lowering of the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation is a good descriptor of the extent to which doping makes the oxide a better oxidant.' Quote 7 adds that ΔEv can crudely predict surface oxygen's reaction engagement.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp103604b"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed CO oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO taking an oxygen atom from the surface, creating a vacancy. The catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability are inversely proportional to the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv), as per the accepted mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.061"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions operates by utilizing the oxide surface's redox properties and oxygen vacancies to transfer oxygen to reactants. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial; lower ΔEv values facilitate oxygen vacancy formation, enhancing the oxide's oxidative power and catalytic activity for oxidation reactions. This is because a lower ΔEv indicates easier oxygen supply, higher oxygen vacancy density, and enhanced surface reactivity, all of which increase the oxide's oxidizing ability and catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c1jm11238d"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves CO combining with lattice oxygen on ceria surfaces. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is pivotal, influencing catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability. Zr dopants lower ΔEv, enhancing lattice oxygen mobility and catalytic activity. This reduction in ΔEv facilitates CO oxidation and promotes the Ce4+ to Ce3+ reduction, aiding oxygen release for the oxidation process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-010-0446-5"},
{"DOC": "In the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, oxide surfaces act as oxidants by donating oxygen atoms to reductants. The energy for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is crucial as it measures the oxide's oxidizing ability. ΔEv must be balanced: too low and reoxidizing the surface becomes difficult, disrupting the catalytic cycle. Doping with a low-valence dopant enhances oxidizing ability, but the moderation principle advises aiming for a middle ground to ensure easy but not too easy oxygen removal, facilitating efficient catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp301341"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen vacancy formation, which reacts with gas-phase reactants like CO, forming products and leaving an oxygen vacancy. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is critical for catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability, with lower ΔEv indicating higher reactivity. In AuxTi1xO2, CO oxidation is thermodynamically favored due to exothermic reactions. After adsorption, CO reacts with an oxygen molecule, releasing energy and CO2, while an oxygen atom fills the vacancy, restoring the surface. Doping weakens the surface oxygen bond, enhancing oxidizing ability and making CO oxidation more favorable on doped surfaces. A good catalyst balances oxide reduction and oxidation rates, ensuring quick oxygen vacancy replenishment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-005-0014-6"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses lattice oxygen to oxidize reactants, with subsequent oxide reduction via oxygen vacancy formation. ΔEv, the energy for oxygen vacancy formation, is pivotal, as lower values facilitate easier oxygen vacancy creation, enhancing catalytic activity and the oxide's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.surfrep.2007.03.002"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism uses surface lattice oxygen to oxidize adsorbates, creating oxygen vacancies. ΔEv, the energy for vacancy formation, is critical as it affects vacancy stability and concentration, thus impacting catalytic activity and surface oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1103/physrevb.79.075433"},
{"DOC": "The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism in oxide-catalyzed oxidation involves oxygen removal and reinsertion, with ΔEv determining the ease of these processes. A moderate ΔEv is ideal, as it ensures the oxide is reactive but also capable of regaining oxygen, maintaining catalytic function. If ΔEv is too low, the oxide becomes a good oxidant but a poor catalyst due to difficulty in oxygen reinsertion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp2049603"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates by CO removing oxygen from the oxide, which is then replenished to regenerate the catalyst. The formation energy of oxygen vacancies (ΔEv) is critical, as making ΔEv more favorable enhances CO oxidation, directly impacting catalytic activity and the surface's oxidizing ability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp112112u"},
{"DOC": "In oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism involves the oxidation of a reductant by surface oxygen atoms, not by adsorbed or gas-phase oxygen. Oxygen vacancies are created when oxidation products desorb, and gas-phase oxidants like O2, CO2, or N2O reoxidize the surface by filling these vacancies. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical factor; a smaller ΔEv indicates a better oxidant surface. However, a very small ΔEv does not necessarily mean a better oxidation catalyst, as the surface must also be reoxidizable by the gaseous oxidant to complete the catalytic cycle. In catalyst design, it's important to balance the reduction of ΔEv to enhance oxidizing ability without making it too small, which could hinder the reoxidation of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_7"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    