Read the questions and answers provided below. First, critically assess the overall relevance of the answers provided to the set of questions asked.

If, upon your assessment, you find that the answers do not contain information that is relevant to the questions asked, stop your review process immediately and respond with a single sentence: "※※※※※※※The provided answers are not relevant to the questions.※※※※※※※". Do not provide any additional explanation or background information, only this sentence should be given as a response in case of irrelevant answers.

If, however, the answers are relevant to the questions asked, proceed to compile answers for each question according to the instructions below. Ensure to aggregate all the relevant answers from the multiple answer results provided in the document, and organize them sequentially by their order number, compiling the corresponding quotes, English answers, and Chinese answers for each question.

If the provided answers' quotes are not differentiated by question, ensure to break them down and assign the quotes to each respective question, outputting them separately within each question's section.

To provide a comprehensive review, differentiate the responses into quotes, English answers, and Chinese answers for each question based on the details given in the 'Answer' XML tags. Structure your review using the XML format showcased below if the answers are relevant to the questions asked:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Aggregated English answer for question 1 from all the answer results
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          所有答案结果中的汇总中文答案 1
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
   <Question number="2">
      <Quotes>
          Quotes for question 2 from all the answer results
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Aggregated English answer for question 2 from all the answer results
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          所有答案结果中的汇总中文答案 2
      </Chinese>
  </Question>
</Questions>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>

What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?
</questions>

Here are the answer lists, in <Answer></Answer>XML tags:
<Answer>

<quotes>
[1] "Although these processes are widely used, an intense research activity is taking place to develop catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation(ODH)ofalkanes,duetothefollowingreasons:"

[2] "The demand for olefins, especially ethylene and propylene, is expected to increase significantly in the near future."

[3] "At the present time, the main sources of olefins are: steam cracking,fluid-catalytic-cracking,and catalytic dehydrogenation."

[4] "Therefore, the current production of olefins is not in line with the forecast market demand for olefins."

[5] "Dehydrogenations thermodynamic constraints limit alkane conversion; furthermore, a major problem is coking, which causes rapid catalyst deactivation."

[6] "In fact, the production of chemicals starting from alkanes by means of oxidative processes  has the potential to radically transform the chemical industry."

[7] "However, in the case of alkenes produced from alkanes, the lower cost of the feedstock is not a real incentive, since current commercial technologies for olefin production already use fuel-grade feedstocks."

[8] "Furthermore, Lange [3] underlined that more exothermal reactions imply higher energy losses (i.e., the difference between the combustion heat of feed and that of the product) and, hence, higher fixed costs, especially if the production of CO2, the main by-product in alkane ODH, is taken into account."

[9] "In the case of propane ODH, the catalytic activity of vanadium oxide catalysts increases with the V2O5 loading, while rates per V- atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, providing a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants."

[10] "For both propane and ethane, reactivity data for catalysts made of supported vanadium oxide are consistent both with kinetically relevant steps involving the dissociation of CH bonds (methylenic C atom in propane) and with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism involving lattice oxygen in CH bond activation."

[11] "The extent of V reduction during steady-state ODH is much lower than for stoichiometric reduction of V5+ to V4+ or V3+. Furthermore, only a fraction of the reduced centers are active in catalytic turnovers, while the rest are re- oxidized in time scales much longer than turnover times."

[12] "In the case of VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid sites (related to the presence of Co2+ cations) and redox sites (related to the presence of V5+/4+ and Co3+/2+) seems to be an important factor in achieving high selectivities to ethylene during the ODH of ethane."

[13] "In recent years, the use of combinatorial/parallel systems, including genetic algorithm and evolutionary catalyst selection approaches, has considerably improved the number of catalytic systems that can be prepared and studied, thus making an important contribution to the discovery of new catalytic systems."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Current propylene production methods face challenges in aligning production capacity with market demand, dealing with thermodynamic limitations in alkane conversion, and avoiding catalyst deactivation due to coking. These issues prompt research into oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as a potentially transformative alternative.

2. ODHP offers the potential to significantly increase olefin production, especially ethylene and propylene, by utilizing lighter alkanes as feedstock. However, the lower cost of feedstock alone is not a compelling incentive, as current technologies already employ high-quality feedstocks.

3. The use of oxygen as the oxidant in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs, particularly considering the production of CO2, a significant by-product. Alternative oxidants like N2O or CO2 could offer breakthroughs in addressing these challenges.

4. Catalysts based on supported vanadium oxide demonstrate high activity and selectivity in ODHP, especially when optimized for intermediate-sized VOx domains. These catalysts balance the activity of surface VOx species with their accessibility to reactants.

5. Kinetic studies on ODHP reveal that the dissociation of CH bonds and a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism involving lattice oxygen are crucial steps in activating alkyl species to produce olefins. This mechanism is consistent across both propane and ethane conversions.

6. The extent of vanadium reduction during ODHP is lower than in stoichiometric reduction, with only a fraction of reduced centers actively participating in catalytic turnovers. The rest of the centers are re-oxidized over much longer timescales than turnover times.

7. The use of combinatorial and parallel systems, along with advanced catalyst selection approaches, has significantly expanded the range of catalytic systems that can be explored and developed. This has facilitated the discovery of novel catalysts for ODHP and other chemical transformations.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 目前丙烯生产方法面临与市场需求不符、烷烃转化热力学限制以及催化剂因焦化而快速失活等挑战。这些问题推动了丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）作为潜在革命性替代方案的研究。

2. ODHP有可能大幅增加乙烯和丙烯等不饱和烃的产量，利用较轻的烷烃作为原料。然而，仅基于成本较低的原料本身并不是一个有力的激励因素，因为当前技术已经使用高质量的原料。

3. 使用氧气作为氧化剂在ODHP中导致更高的能量损失和固定成本，特别是考虑到CO2的生产，这是烷基氧化的主要副产品。替代氧化剂如N2O或CO2可能解决这些挑战。

4. 基于支持的五氧化二钒催化剂在ODHP中表现出高活性和选择性，尤其是在中间大小的VOx域时。这些催化剂平衡了表面VOx物种的活性与它们对反应物的可接近性。

5. ODHP的动态研究表明，CH键的分解和Mars-van Krevelen还原机制涉及晶格氧激活烷基物种以生成不饱和烃是至关重要的步骤。这一机制在丙烷和乙烷转换中都是一致的。

6. 五价钒的还原程度在ODHP中低于等量还原，只有部分还原中心参与催化周转。其余的中心在远长于周转时间的尺度上重新氧化。

7. 组合和并行系统以及先进的催化剂选择方法的使用显著扩大了可以探索和开发的催化系统的范围。这促进了新型ODHP和其他化学转变催化剂的发现。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "The demand for olefins, especially ethylene and propylene, is expected to increase significantly in the near future."
[2] "Although these processes are widely used, an intense research activity is taking place to develop catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation(ODH)ofalkanes,duetothefollowingreasons:"
[3] "In steam cracking, ethylene is the preferred product, but the demand for propylene is growing faster than that for ethylene, especially in Western Europe [1]."
[4] "Dehydrogenations thermodynamic constraints limit alkane conversion; furthermore, a major problem is coking, which causes rapid catalyst deactivation."
[5] "The production of chemicals starting from alkanes by means of oxidative processes has been one of the most studied topics in recent decades."
[6] "However, in the case of alkenes produced from alkanes, the lower cost of the feedstock is not a real incentive, since current commercial technologies for olefin production already use fuel-grade feedstocks."
[7] "In other words, the potential advantages offered by ODH are not enough to convince companies to abandon well-established technologies, carried out in completely depreciated, highly reliable, and efficient plants, unless a better yield than that currently achieved can be obtained."
[8] "A large number of reviews dealing with the ODH of light alkanes have been published since the early 1990s [421]."
[9] "Indeed, it is quite difficult to obtain a uniform picture concerning those significant catalyst characteristics that determine the performance in alkane ODH, due to the following reasons:"
[10] "The majority of papers focus on some specific aspects that may affect the reactivity of the catalysts investigated."
[11] "This problem may be overcome in part by studying catalyst characteristics under working conditions (in situ reactivity) and, even more so, by coupling this with a concomitant analysis of the reaction products."
[12] "Nevertheless, sometimes the thorough characterization of the catalyst downloaded post-catalytic tests (the spent catalyst) and the comparison of ante-reaction features may be sufficient to understand whether significant changes in catalyst characteristics occurred during catalytic tests."
[13] "A great number of papers deal with the study of the catalytic properties of vanadium oxide-based catalysts in propane and ethane ODH."
[14] "In propane ODH, the catalytic activity of vanadium oxide catalysts increases with the V2O5 loading, while rates per V- atom reach a maximum on VOx domains of intermediate size, providing a balance between the activity of surface VOx species and their accessibility to reactants."
[15] "For both propane and ethane, reactivity data for catalysts made of supported vanadium oxide are consistent both with kinetically relevant steps involving the dissociation of CH bonds (methylenic C atom in propane) and with a Mars-van Krevelen redox mechanism involving lattice oxygen in CH bond activation."
[16] "The extent of V reduction during steady-state ODH is much lower than for stoichiometric reduction of V5+ to V4+ or V3+. Furthermore, only a fraction of the reduced centers are active in catalytic turnovers, while the rest are re-oxidized in time scales much longer than turnover times."
[17] "ODH turnover rates increase as the energy of the absorption edge in the UV-visible DR spectrum decreases; the electronic transitions responsible for the absorption edge have been found to be mechanistically related to the redox cycles involving lattice oxygens responsible for ODH turnovers of alkanes."
[18] "The role of the support on the reactivity of vanadium oxide in alkane ODH has been investigated by many authors."
[19] "The isomorphous substitution of active metal species,e.g.,vanadium, into microporous and mesoporous materials is an attractive strategy for designing new catalysts for this reaction."
[20] "For each catalyst,the best olefin yield value is given, obtained in correspondence to a set value of conversion and selectivity."
[21] "In recent years, the use of combinatorial/parallel systems, including genetic algorithm and evolutionary catalyst selection approaches, has considerably improved the number of catalytic systems that can be prepared and studied, thus making an important contribution to the discovery of new catalytic systems."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Current propylene production methods face challenges in keeping up with the rapidly increasing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, due to the limited production capacity of steam cracking processes. This leads to a growing disparity between propylene demand and supply, necessitating the development of alternative methods like oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP).

2. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents itself as an attractive alternative to traditional propylene production methods because it offers potential energy efficiency improvements and process simplicity. The exothermic nature of ODHP contrasts with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and cracking processes, which can lead to higher energy losses and fixed costs. 

3. However, the potential advantages of ODHP are not sufficient to convince companies to abandon established and efficient production technologies unless the yield of propylene surpasses that achievable with current methods. Companies are hesitant to adopt new technologies unless they guarantee a better yield or economic return.

4. The use of oxygen as the oxidant in ODHP processes presents challenges in achieving optimal selectivity and yield. Oxygen lean conditions enhance selectivity towards olefins but may also facilitate reactions leading to hydrogen production, which could affect the redox properties of the gas phase and the nature of the catalyst characteristics.

5. Contrary to the common belief that the choice of catalyst is solely determined by a few specific aspects, such as morphology or electronic properties, the literature suggests that multiple factors can influence the performance of metal oxide-based catalysts in ODHP. A collective interpretation of these factors is lacking, leading to discrepancies in experimental results and a complex understanding of catalyst characteristics.

6. Catalyst performance in ODHP is influenced by a variety of factors, including the degree of agglomeration of metal cations, acid-base characteristics, valence state of metal cations, and collective electronic properties. The redox properties of the gas phase can dynamically modify the active surface and affect the reaction mechanism, thereby impacting the concentration of by-products and co-products like CO2 and H2O.

7. To address the challenges in ODHP, researchers have turned to advanced experimental techniques that enable in situ characterization of catalysts and the analysis of reaction products. These techniques help in understanding the dynamic changes in catalyst characteristics under working conditions, which can be crucial for optimizing the ODHP process.

8. Catalysts that produce outstanding olefin yields in ODHP are scarce. Most catalysts reported in the literature yield ethylene below 20%, highlighting the need for further advancements in catalyst development and process design.

9. The use of combinatorial and parallel systems, such as genetic algorithms and evolutionary catalyst selection, has expanded the scope of catalyst discovery and preparation, contributing to the identification of novel catalysts with improved performance in ODHP.

10. The performance of catalysts for ethane ODH is influenced by the specific elements they contain, such as Ni, Mo, and Nb. These elements interact with the support to modify structural and catalytic properties, enhancing the reactivity of ethane and selectivity towards ethylene production.

11. The addition of alkali metals like Cs, K, and Li to molybdenum oxide catalysts can alter the structure and electronic properties of MoOx domains. This can slow down the initial reduction of MoOx species, affecting the rate-determining CH bond activation step and influencing the selectivity towards propylene.

12. The inclusion of potassium in zirconia-supported molybdenum oxide can prevent the formation of crystalline Zr(MoO4)2 and foster the formation of three-dimensional molybdenum oxide and two-dimensional polymolybdates. This enhances propylene selectivity and yield in ODHP, showcasing the importance of support interactions in catalyst design.

13. Catalyst performance in ODHP is highly dependent on the support used. Different supports can influence the primary deep oxidation and dehydrogenation routes of ethane to COx and coke, respectively. The choice of support can affect the catalytic activity and selectivity of the catalyst towards desired products.

14. Catalyst performance in ODHP is not only influenced by the composition of the catalyst but also by the reaction conditions, such as temperature, pressure, and feed ratio. These conditions can affect the nature of the catalyst characteristics and the formation of by-products, co-products, and the redox properties of the gas phase.

15. The use of binary dispersed structures, such as VOx-CrOx and VOx-MoOx mixed structures, can significantly increase the propane ODH rate and selectivity compared to pure Al2O3 supports. These structures enable higher propane activation to propylene and prevent consecutive total combustion of propylene, enhancing the overall performance of the catalyst.

16. The addition of additives like phosphorus (P), potassium (K), calcium (Ca), nickel (Ni), chromium (Cr), niobium (Nb), magnesium (Mg), gold (Au), zinc (Zn), and molybdenum (Mo) can modify the acid-basic and redox properties of supported vanadium oxide catalysts. These modifications can affect the total activity and selectivity of the catalyst towards desired products in ODHP.

17. The use of isomorphous substitution of active metal species, such as vanadium, into microporous and mesoporous materials, can lead to the design of new catalysts for ODHP. This approach allows for the isolation of active sites, which is crucial for achieving high selectivities and yields in the reaction.

18. Conversion versus selectivity charts for ethane and propane ODH illustrate the performance of various catalysts. These charts compare the best olefin yield values obtained at specific conversion and selectivity levels, providing insights into the relative performance of different catalysts.

19. Recent advancements in combinatorial and parallel systems, including genetic algorithms and evolutionary catalyst selection, have enabled the discovery of new catalytic systems with improved performance in ODHP. These systems have contributed significantly to the development of more efficient and selective catalysts for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation.

20. Catalyst performance in ethane ODH varies depending on the type of catalyst used. High-performing catalysts typically involve the interaction of nickel (Ni) with the support, leading to improved dispersion of the nickel phase and enhanced CH bond activation. Promoters like niobium (Nb) have been found to be particularly beneficial for ethane ODH, significantly increasing reactivity while maintaining high ethylene selectivity.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 目前，丙烯生产方法面临的问题是无法满足丙烯需求的快速增长，尤其是在西欧地区，由于蒸汽裂解过程的产能有限。这导致了丙烯需求与供应之间的差距加大，促使寻找替代方法，如丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）。

2. 与传统丙烯生产技术相比，ODHP具有潜在的能效提升和简化工艺的优势。其放热性质与脱氢和裂化等吸热过程形成对比，可能带来更高的能源损失和固定成本。

3. 然而，ODHP的潜在优势不足以说服公司放弃现有的、高效且成熟的生产技术，除非能够获得比当前技术更好的丙烯产量或经济回报。

4. 在使用氧气作为氧化剂的ODHP过程中，实现最佳选择性和产量存在挑战。在氧稀条件下，可以提高烯烃的选择性，但同时也可能促进氢生成反应，从而影响气体相的还原性以及催化剂特性的本质。

5. 与普遍认为催化剂性能仅由少数几个特定方面决定的观点相反，文献表明金属氧化物基催化剂在ODHP中的性能受多种因素的影响，如金属离子团簇的聚集程度、酸碱特性、金属离子的价态以及固体的集体电子性质。气体相的还原性可以动态地改变活性表面，并影响反应机制，进而影响副产品的浓度和产物，如二氧化碳和水。

6. 通过先进的实验技术，如原位催化剂表征和反应产物分析，研究人员能够理解在工作条件下催化剂特性的动态变化，这对于优化ODHP过程至关重要。

7. 报告在文献中，表现出出色烯烃产率的ODHP催化剂极为罕见。大多数催化剂的乙烷产乙烯低于20%，凸显了催化剂开发和工艺设计方面进一步改进的需求。

8. 近年来，组合和并行系统，包括遗传算法和进化催化剂选择方法，显著扩大了可制备和研究的催化体系范围，对新催化系统的发现做出了重要贡献。

9. 铁、钼和铌等元素与支撑材料的相互作用可以修改结构和催化性质，增强乙烷反应活性并选择性产生乙二醇。

10. 碱金属如铯、钾和锂的添加可以改变钼氧化物域的结构和电子性质。这可以减慢钼氧化物物种的初始还原，影响碳氢键激活步骤的速度，从而影响丙烯选择性。

11. 在锆基支持的钼氧化物中添加钾不仅可以防止结晶Zr(MoO4)2的形成，还可以促进三维钼氧化物和二维多钼酸盐的形成。这增强了丙烯选择性和产率，突出了支持相互作用在催化剂设计中的重要性。

12. 不同的支持可以影响乙烷的初级深度氧化和脱氢路线，分别导致二氧化碳和焦炭的形成。选择支持可以影响催化剂的活性和目标产物的选择性。

13. 丙烷ODHP的性能高度依赖于催化剂的组成。二元分散结构，如VOx-CrOx和VOx-MoOx混合结构，与单纯的Al2O3支持相比，可以显著增加丙烷激活到丙烯的速率和选择性。这些结构使丙烷更容易被激活为丙烯，并阻止丙烯的完全燃烧，从而提高了催化剂的整体性能。

14. 催化剂添加剂，如磷(P)、钾(K)、钙(Ca)、镍(Ni)、铬(Cr)、铌(Nb)、镁(Mg)、金(Au)、锌(Zn)和钼(Mo)，可以修改支持的范德华氧化物催化剂的酸碱性和还原性。这些修改可以影响催化剂的总活性和向所需产品的选择性。

15. 将活性金属物种，如钒，以等晶型置换方式引入微孔和介孔材料，可以导致设计新的ODHP催化剂。这种方法允许活性位点的隔离，对于在反应中实现高选择性和产率至关重要。

16. 转化率与选择性图表显示了不同催化剂在特定转化率和选择性水平下最佳烯烃产率的比较。这些图表提供了不同催化剂相对性能的见解。

17. 近年来，组合和并行系统，包括遗传算法和进化催化剂选择方法，已经发现了具有改善性能的新催化体系。这些系统对ODHP的发展做出了重大贡献。

18. 乙烷ODHP的催化剂性能因催化剂类型而异。表现优异的催化剂通常涉及镍与支撑材料的交互作用，导致镍相的分散增强和碳氢键激活效果提升。铌作为添加剂特别有益于乙烷ODHP，显著提高了反应活性，同时维持了高的乙二醇选择性。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "Although these processes are widely used, an intense research activity is taking place to develop catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation(ODH)ofalkanes,duetothefollowingreasons:
1. In steam cracking, ethylene is the preferred product, but the demand for propylene is growing faster than that for ethylene, especially in Western Europe [1]."
[2] "Also, in the case of FCC, smaller amounts of propylene are produced."
[3] "Therefore, the current production of olefins is not in line with the forecast market demand for olefins."
[4] "Dehydrogenations thermodynamic constraints limit alkane conversion; furthermore, a major problem is coking, which causes rapid catalyst deactivation."
[5] "In fact, the production of chemicals starting from alkanes by means of oxidative processes has been one of the most studied topics in recent decades."
[6] "As pointed out by Brazdil [2]: The direct conversion of ethane and propane to commodity chemical intermediates has the potential to radically transform the chemical industry."
[7] "However, in the case of alkenes produced from alkanes, the lower cost of the feedstock is not a real incentive, since current commercial technologies for olefin production already use fuel-grade feedstocks."
[8] "This implies that while in the production of, say,acrylonitrile from propane a yield of 60% is sufficient to obtain a cost equivalency with the current technology from propylene (due to the difference in cost between propane and propylene), in the case of propylene synthesis by propane ODH,better olefin yields are needed than those obtained with current technologies."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The primary challenges in current propylene production methods include the slower growth rate of propylene demand compared to ethylene, the limited yield from steam cracking and fluid-catalytic-cracking processes, and the issue of rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by potentially offering a more efficient route to propylene production. However, ODHP presents its own set of advantages and limitations. Advantages include the potential for improved energy efficiency due to the exothermic nature of the reaction, the process simplicity, and the possibility of producing specific olefins with unique characteristics. Limitations include the need for catalysts with high activity and selectivity, the requirement for specific reactor configurations or unconventional reaction conduction methods, and the challenge of achieving olefin yields comparable to those obtained with current technologies for alkenes production. Additionally, the choice of oxidant, particularly the use of oxygen, is critical for optimizing the performance of ODHP processes.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
当前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战包括丙烯需求增长速度较慢与乙烯相比，裂解过程产出丙烯量较小以及催化剂快速失活的问题。氧化脱氢法（ODHP）通过可能提供更高效的丙烯生产途径来解决这些问题。然而，ODHP也存在自身的优势和限制。优势包括由于反应为放热性质，因此可能提高能效；过程简单性以及有可能生产具有独特特性的特定烯烃。限制包括需要高效活性和选择性的催化剂，特定反应器配置或非传统反应传导方法的要求，以及实现与当前技术生产烯烃相似的烯烃产率的挑战。此外，选择氧化剂，特别是使用氧气，对于优化ODHP过程性能至关重要。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>
[1] "Although these processes are widely used, an intense research activity is taking place to develop catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation(ODH)ofalkanes,duetothefollowingreasons:
1. In steam cracking, ethylene is the preferred product, but the
demand for propylene is growing faster than that for ethylene, especially in Western Europe [1]. Also, in the case of FCC, smaller amounts of propylene are produced.
Therefore, the current production of olefins is not in line with the forecast market demand for olefins."
[2] "Dehydrogenations thermodynamic constraints limit alkane
conversion; furthermore, a major problem is coking, which causes rapid catalyst deactivation."
[3] "In fact, the production of chemicals starting from alkanes by means of oxidative processes  has been one of the most studied topics in recent decades. As pointed out by Brazdil [2]: The direct conversion of ethane and propane to commodity chemical intermediates has the potential to radically transform the chemical industry. The effectiveness of the catalyst, that is the activity for alkane conversion and the selectivity to desired products, will ultimately determine the economic attractiveness of an alkane-based chemical process."
[4] "However, in the case of alkenes produced from alkanes, the lower cost of the feedstock is not a real incentive, since current commercial technologies for olefin production already use fuel-grade feedstocks. In this case, conversely, the improved energy efficiency (ODH is exothermal, while dehydrogenation and cracking are endothermal), and process simplicity are effective incentives."
[5] "Furthermore, Lange [3] underlined that more exothermal reactions imply higher energy losses (i.e., the difference between the combustion heat of feed and that of the product) and, hence, higher fixed costs, especially if the production of CO2, the main by-product in alkane ODH, is taken into account."
[6] "A large number of reviews dealing with the ODH of light alkanes have been published since the early 1990s [421]."
[7] "The majority of papers focus on some specific aspects that
may affect the reactivity of the catalysts investigated. For instance, in the case of supported metal oxide catalysts, in addition to the usual morphological aspects, some of the important features affecting the performance are: the degree of agglomeration of Me cations (from isolated units to bulk Me oxide); acidbase characteristics; the valence state of the metal cation under reaction conditions; the collective electronic properties of the solid."
[8] "In contrast with the above-mentioned findings, the results obtained by Lemonidou and co-workers [27] showed that in titania and zirconia-supported vanadium oxide, the ability of vanadium to activate the CH bond in propane weakens when increasing VOx density."
[9] "The role of the support on the reactivity of vanadium oxide in
alkane ODH has been investigated by many authors [27,37,46,47,5175]."
[10] "The reduction and catalytic properties of active VOx domains
can be significantly affected by the formation of binary dispersed structures."
[11] "Examples include V-containing high-surface siliceous materials, such as MCM-41 [49,100,106111], MCM-48 [112] or SBA-15 [112115]."
[12] "In the case of VCoAPO-18, the presence of both acid sites (related to the presence of Co2+ cations) and redox sites (related to the presence of V5+/4+ and Co3+/2+) seems to be an important factor in achieving high selectivities to ethylene during the ODH of ethane [116]."
[13] "One of the best performing catalysts in propane ODH is the VOx-SBA-15 system [113,115], prepared by an alcoholic impregnation method, in which the introduction of V species onto the inner walls of SBA-15 provides a system with a large concentration of accessible, isolated and structurally well- defined active sites."
[14] "In the case of molybdena-based systems:"
[15] "In recent years, the use of combinatorial/parallel systems,including genetic algorithm and evolutionary catalyst selection approaches, has considerably improved the number of catalytic systems that can be prepared and studied, thus making an important contribution to the discovery of new catalytic systems [181,187,189,263269]."
[16] "In the case of ethane ODH, most catalysts reported in literature give ethylene yields lower than 20%."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The main challenges in current propylene production methods include the slower growth of propylene demand compared to ethylene, especially in Western Europe, and the issue of catalyst deactivation due to coking. The development of catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes addresses these issues by offering the potential for improved energy efficiency and process simplicity, as well as the direct conversion of ethane and propane to commodity chemical intermediates, which could transform the chemical industry. However, the lower cost of feedstock for current olefin production technologies is not a significant incentive, except for the advantage of improved energy efficiency and process simplicity in ODH.

2. Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes offers the potential for improved energy efficiency (exothermic reactions) and process simplicity compared to dehydrogenation and cracking processes, which are endothermic. This makes ODH a more attractive option for producing olefins from alkanes.

3. The production of olefins through oxidative processes has been a subject of extensive research in recent decades. This could potentially lead to a radical transformation of the chemical industry, as highlighted by Brazdil. The effectiveness of the catalysts, including their activity and selectivity towards desired products, is crucial in determining the economic attractiveness of alkane-based chemical processes.

4. The improved energy efficiency and process simplicity of ODH compared to dehydrogenation and cracking are the key incentives for developing ODH technologies. The exothermic nature of ODH reactions makes it more energy-efficient, and the simpler process structure reduces operational costs.

5. The use of more exothermal reactions in ODH leads to higher energy losses, which in turn result in higher fixed costs, especially considering the production of CO2, the main by-product in alkane ODH. This factor needs to be taken into account when evaluating the overall economic viability of ODH technologies.

6. A large number of reviews have been published on the oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes since the early 1990s, indicating a significant interest in this area of research.

7. Research on catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes focuses on various aspects, including the morphology of metal oxide catalysts, their acid-base characteristics, valence states, and collective electronic properties. These factors influence the reactivity and performance of catalysts in ODH reactions.

8. Contrary to some findings, Lemonidou and co-workers' research on titania and zirconia-supported vanadium oxide catalysts showed that the ability of vanadium to activate the CH bond in propane diminishes with increased vanadium oxide density.

9. The role of the support in the reactivity of vanadium oxide catalysts for alkane ODH has been extensively studied, highlighting the impact of support properties on catalyst performance.

10. The reduction and catalytic properties of active vanadium oxide domains can be significantly altered by the formation of binary dispersed structures, which may enhance the catalytic activity of these systems.

11. The use of high-surface siliceous materials, such as MCM-41, MCM-48, and SBA-15, in the design of catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes has shown promising results.

12. The presence of both acid sites (Co2+ cations) and redox sites (V5+/4+ and Co3+/2+) in VCoAPO-18 catalysts plays a crucial role in achieving high selectivities to ethylene during the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.

13. The VOx-SBA-15 system has been identified as one of the best-performing catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, demonstrating high selectivities and productivity.

14. Molybdena-based systems have been explored for oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with the potential for significant improvements in catalyst performance through the use of combinatorial and parallel systems.

15. Most reported catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation yield ethylene at levels lower than 20%, indicating a need for further research to enhance the efficiency and selectivity of these catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 目前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战包括：丙烯需求增长速度较乙烯更快，特别是在西欧地区；催化剂失活问题，主要是由于焦碳形成。氧化脱氢烷烃（ODH）技术通过提供更高的能效和更简单的工艺流程，以及直接将乙烷和丙烷转化为商品中间体的可能性，来解决这些挑战，这可能彻底改变化学工业。然而，当前用于生产烯烃的技术中原料成本较低，并不是一种显著的激励因素，除了在ODH过程中能效更高和工艺更简单带来的优势。

2. 氧化脱氢烷烃过程相较于裂解和脱氢过程提供了更高的能效（放热反应），以及更简单的工艺结构，这是开发ODH技术的关键激励因素。ODH反应的放热特性使其更具能效，而更简单的工艺结构则降低了运营成本。

3. 近几十年来，关于从轻烷烃中进行氧化脱氢的研究非常活跃，这表明了该领域研究的深入性。这一潜在的变革性过程有可能彻底重塑化学工业，正如巴西尔所指出的那样。催化剂的有效性及其对所需产品的选择性是决定基于烷烃的化学过程经济吸引力的关键因素。

4. 与当前用于生产烯烃的技术相比，氧化脱氢烷烃技术的优势在于更高的能效（放热反应）和更简单的工艺流程。这些特点使得ODH成为从烷烃生产烯烃的更优选择。

5. 在ODH过程中使用更多的放热反应导致更高的能量损失，进而引起较高的固定成本，特别是考虑到CO2作为主要副产品在烷烃ODH过程中的产生。在评估ODH技术的整体经济可行性时，这一点需要特别考虑。

6. 自20世纪90年代初以来，已经发表了大量关于轻烷烃氧化脱氢的综述文章，这表明了在这个研究领域的广泛兴趣。

7. 对于烷烃氧化脱氢催化剂的研究集中在形态、酸碱特性、金属离子电荷状态、固体集体电子性质等关键方面，这些因素影响着催化剂在ODH反应中的活性和性能。

8. 与一些发现相反，Lemonidou等人对二氧化钛和氧化锆支持的五氧化二钒催化剂的研究显示，随着五氧化二钒密度的增加，五氧化二钒激活丙烷中CH键的能力减弱。

9. 对于烷烃氧化脱氢的活性氧化物的支撑作用的研究已经进行了很多，强调了支撑材料特性对于催化剂性能的影响。

10. 活性五氧化二钒区域的减少和催化性质可以显著受到分散二元结构的形成的影响，这可能会增强这些系统的催化活性。

11. 高比表面积硅质材料，如MCM-41、MCM-48和SBA-15，在设计氧化脱氢烷烃催化剂时表现出有前景的结果。

12. 在VCoAPO-18催化剂中，酸性位点（Co2+离子）的存在和氧化还原位点（V5+/4+和Co3+/2+）的共存对于在乙烷氧化脱氢过程中实现高乙稀选择性至关重要。

13. VOx-SBA-15系统已被识别为最佳的氧化脱氢丙烷催化剂之一，显示出高选择性和生产力。

14. 基于钼的系统已经被探索用于烷烃氧化脱氢，通过组合和并行系统的方法，有可能显著提高催化剂性能。

15. 大多数报道的乙烷氧化脱氢催化剂的乙稀产率低于20%，这表明需要进一步研究以提高这些催化剂的效率和选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>
<Answer>
<quotes>

[1] "Although these processes are widely used, an intense research activity is taking place to develop catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation(ODH)ofalkanes,duetothefollowingreasons:
1. In steam cracking, ethylene is the preferred product, but the demand for propylene is growing faster than that for ethylene, especially in Western Europe [1]. Also, in the case of FCC, smaller amounts of propylene are produced.
Therefore, the current production of olefins is not in line with the forecast market demand for olefins.
2. Dehydrogenations thermodynamic constraints limit alkane conversion; furthermore, a major problem is coking, which causes rapid catalyst deactivation.
Therefore, the need exists for new technologies devoted to the production of specific olefins, which have none of the disadvantages characterizing dehydrogenation."

[2] "In the case of alkenes produced from alkanes, the lower cost of the feedstock is not a real incentive, since current commercial technologies for olefin production already use fuel-grade feedstocks. In this case, conversely, the improved energy efficiency (ODH is exothermal, while dehydrogenation and cracking are endothermal), and process simplicity are effective incentives."

[3] "This implies that while in the production of, say,acrylonitrile from propane a yield of 60% is sufficient to obtain a cost equivalency with the current technology from propylene (due to the difference in cost between propane and propylene), in the case of propylene synthesis by propane ODH,better olefin yields are needed than those obtained with current technologies."

[4] "Furthermore, Lange [3] underlined that more exothermal reactions imply higher energy losses (i.e., the difference between the combustion heat of feed and that of the product) and, hence, higher fixed costs, especially if the production of CO2, the main by-product in alkane ODH, is taken into account."

[5] "A large number of reviews dealing with the ODH of light alkanes have been published since the early 1990s [421]. In the present review, we attempt to offer an answer to the following questions on the scientific and technological aspects of ethane and propane ODH: Which key factors are the chief determinants of the performance of metal oxide-based catalysts?"
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

The primary challenges in current propylene production methods involve the mismatch between the demand for propylene and the supply from steam cracking and fluid-catalytic cracking (FCC) processes, where propylene production is insufficient. Additionally, dehydrogenation processes are thermodynamically constrained, leading to limited alkane conversion and the issue of catalyst deactivation due to coking. The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering improved energy efficiency (exothermic reactions compared to endothermic dehydrogenation and cracking) and process simplicity. It requires higher olefin yields than current technologies, especially for the production of specific olefins like propylene from propane. However, more exothermal reactions, like those in ODHP, lead to higher energy losses and fixed costs, particularly considering the production of CO2, the main by-product in alkane ODH. The review aims to identify the key factors determining the performance of metal oxide-based catalysts in ethane and propane ODH, considering the advancements and challenges in this area since the early 1990s.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

当前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战包括蒸汽裂解和流化床催化裂化（FCC）过程之间需求与供应之间的不匹配，以及在脱氢过程中有限的烷烃转化率和催化剂由于结焦而快速失效的问题。氧化脱氢丙烷（ODHP）通过提供比脱氢和裂解更高效的能量效率（放热反应与吸热脱氢和裂解相比）和简化的过程来解决这些问题。它需要比现有技术更高的烯烃产率，特别是从丙烷生产丙烯时。然而，更多放热反应，如在ODHP中，导致更高的能量损失和固定成本，特别是考虑到生产CO2，烷基ODHP的主要副产品。本文旨在确定自20世纪90年代初以来在乙烷和丙烷ODH方面确定性能的关键因素，考虑这一领域的进展和挑战。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</Answer>

