<quotes>
[1] "Cr-MCM-41 catalysts prepared by direct hydrothermal synthesis (DHT) have been tested for dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene with CO2."
[2] "Cr-MCM-41 showed the highest activity among M-MCM-41 catalysts tested, resulting in the production of styrene with the conversion of 65% and the selectivity above 90%."
[3] "The synthesized materials were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), N2 adsorption (77 K), and diffuse reflectance UVvis spectroscopic measurements."
[4] "It is suggested that Cr(VI)O4 in tetrahedral coordination is formed as an active monochromate species and reduced to Cr(III)O6 in octahedral coordination as a less active polychromate species during the reaction."
[5] "Deactivated catalyst was regenerated by a treatment with gaseous oxygen or CO2, during which redistribution as well as reoxidation of polymeric Cr(III)O6 octahedra to monomeric Cr(VI)O4 tetrahedra was observed."
[6] "The rate of CO formation increased together with that of styrene formation, while the rate of H2 formation decreased, with increasing partial pressure of CO2."
[7] "It was suggested that Cr(VI) in tetrahedral coordination formed as an active monochromate species and reduced to Cr(III) in octahedral coordination as a less active polychromate species during the reaction."
[8] "The deactivated catalyst was regenerated by a treatment with gaseous oxygen, during which the reoxidation of the Cr(III) species to the Cr(VI) species was observed."
[9] "Not only gaseous oxygen but also carbon dioxide could regenerate Cr(VI)O4 tetrahedra from reduced Cr(III)O6 octahedra, even though the efficiency of carbon dioxide was lower than that of oxygen."
[10] "Moreover, reverse water-gas shift reaction was catalyzed over Cr-MCM-41, and the catalytic cycle is probably composed of the reductionoxidation between Cr(III) and Cr(II) species."
[11] "Hydrogen formed by the dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene was consumed by reverse water-gas shift reaction, resulting in the acceleration of ethylbenzene dehydrogenation."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Cr-MCM-41 catalysts prepared by direct hydrothermal synthesis (DHT) have been tested for dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene with CO2, showing the highest activity among M-MCM-41 catalysts tested, producing styrene with 65% conversion and selectivity above 90%.

2. The rate of CO formation increased with the rate of styrene formation, while the rate of H2 formation decreased with increasing partial pressure of CO2.

3. The catalytic cycle over Cr-MCM-41 involves the reductionoxidation between Cr(III) and Cr(II) species, with reverse water-gas shift reaction being catalyzed.

4. Cr(VI) in tetrahedral coordination forms as an active monochromate species, reduced to Cr(III) in octahedral coordination as a less active polychromate species during the reaction.

5. The deactivated Cr-MCM-41 catalyst can be regenerated by treatments with gaseous oxygen or CO2, leading to the reoxidation of the Cr(III) species to the Cr(VI) species.

6. Not only gaseous oxygen but also carbon dioxide can regenerate Cr(VI)O4 tetrahedra from reduced Cr(III)O6 octahedra, although the efficiency of carbon dioxide is lower than that of oxygen.

7. Hydrogen formed by the dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene is consumed by reverse water-gas shift reaction, accelerating the ethylbenzene dehydrogenation.

8. The deactivation of the Cr-MCM-41 catalyst is not caused by the coke formation, as the activity is quickly regenerated even after a short oxidation treatment.

9. The evolution of chromium species in supported Cr2O3 catalysts depends on the loading and support properties, influencing their catalytic performance.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 直接水热合成制备的Cr-MCM-41催化剂被用于测试在二氧化碳存在下异丙苯脱氢，显示出与其他M-MCM-41催化剂相比的最高活性，生产出转化率为65%，选择性超过90%的苯乙烯。

2. 随着二氧化碳分压的增加，生成的CO速率与苯乙烯生成速率增加，而氢气生成速率下降。

3. Cr-MCM-41催化剂上的催化循环包括Cr(III)和Cr(II)物种之间的还原氧化，以及逆水煤气变换反应的催化作用。

4. 在四面体配位下的Cr(VI)形成作为活性单铬酸盐物种，并被还原为八面体配位的Cr(III)，作为较不活跃的多铬酸盐物种。

5. 活化的Cr-MCM-41催化剂可以通过氧气或二氧化碳的处理再生，导致Cr(III)物种被氧化回Cr(VI)物种。

6. 不仅是气体氧气，二氧化碳也可以从减少的Cr(III)O6八面体再生Cr(VI)O4四面体，尽管二氧化碳的效率低于氧气。

7. 由异丙苯脱氢产生的氢气通过逆水煤气变换反应消耗，加速了异丙苯脱氢。

8. 催化剂的失活不是由于焦炭形成的，即使在短时间的氧化处理后，活性也迅速恢复。

9. 支撑Cr2O3催化剂中铬物种的演变取决于负载和支撑性质，影响其催化性能。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
