I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Anti-coke behavior of an alumina nanosheet supported PtSn catalyst for isobutane dehydrogenation In heterogeneous catalysis, carbon deposition on catalysts during the operating conditions of a reaction can be a disastrous problem, especially when using widely adopted acidic alumina as a support. Designing anti-coke catalysts, with the aim of improving the coking tolerance, and achieving a high catalytic reactivity is highly desirable but always remains challenging. Here, the excellent anti-coke capacity of a laboratory-made catalyst of alumina nanosheets supporting PtSn for isobutane dehydrogenation is reported. The prepared alumina nanosheets showed abundant defect sites and less acidity compared to the commercial product. The results of the CO-DRIFT spectra showed that the electron density of platinum was increased with the stronger electronic interactions between platinum and tin on the alumina nanosheets. The alumina nanosheet supported PtSn catalyst showed an improved stability, selectivity and activity when compared to previously studied alumina supported Pt-based catalysts reported in the literature, under the dehydrogenation of isobutane reaction conditions of over 24 h at 560 C. The detailed characterization confirmed that coke species were mainly located on the surface of the alumina nanosheets instead of on the metal particles or in the vicinity of the metal particles, thus ensuring good exposure of active sites. The coke species contained more aliphatics with a higher degree of disorder, which facilitated the elimination of coke during the regeneration process. This study demonstrated that rational design of the support structure could be an efficient strategy to govern the coke behaviors of supported catalysts, and thus could be used to provide guidelines for future catalyst design with high reactivity and stability for a variety of catalytic applications. 1 Introduction Coke formation is one of the most frequent causes of catalyst deactivation in steam reforming, (de)hydrogenation, watergas shift and other important industrial catalytic processes.15 The coke can poison the active sites or limit the access of the reactants to the active sites by partial or complete blockage of the porosity, thereby reducing the catalytic activity and eventually deactivating the catalysts completely as the time on stream increases. Moreover, a significant amount of coke formation in the reactor will increase the pressure drop, block the flow and decrease the production capacity, which affects the production efficiency.68 In industrial processes, the coked catalysts must be frequently regenerated to recover the catalytic activity under harsh conditions, such as a high-temperature oxidative atmosphere which could lead to an irreversible catalyst deactivation as the time on stream increases. Replacement of the catalysts or shutdown of the process may lead to significant financial consequences.6 Therefore, an understanding of the coke formation processes and its influencing factors are important in minimizing the undesirable impact of coke formation.
For supported metal catalysts, coke formation mechanisms consist of two stages: hydrocarbon molecules are dehydrogenated, and this is followed by the formation of unsaturated species on the metallic sites. These unsaturated species then migrate to the acid sites to further catalyze the formation of coke. According to the previously mentioned principles, significant efforts have been directed to minimize its undesirable impacts.9 The introduction of metal or metal oxide promoters has been confirmed as an effective method to suppress the coke formation by modifying the geometric and electronic properties of the metal phase.1 For example, Damyanova et al. confirmed that the addition of a small amount of palladium to Ni-containing catalysts led to the formation of small nano-sized and easy reducible NiO particles, thus improving the catalytic activity and stability for CO2 reforming.10 Liu et al. also reported the beneficial effect of Pt addition to Ni/MCM-41 with enhanced coke resistance for CO2 reforming. Compared to the monometallic Ni catalyst, the PtNi catalyst showed better activity with enhanced coke resistance performance.11 For supported catalysts, the support plays a crucial role in optimizing catalyst structure and reaction performance. Thanks to the large surface area, good thermal stability and strong mechanical strength, Al2O3 is the most commonly used support material in heterogeneous catalysts used for such processes as light alkane dehydrogenation, FischerTropsch synthesis, reforming of methane, ethylene epoxidation, and so on.1214 Among them, the on-purpose olefins production by alkane dehydrogenation has gained increasing scientific attention in industrial circles as the fossil fuels diminish and the environment deteriorates.1517 The Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts have been widely used in commercial processes.15,18 The Lewis acid sites and amphoteric OH groups of alumina surfaces are beneficial for the dispersion of metal components. Nevertheless, light alkane dehydrogenation is an endothermic and thermodynamically equilibrium limited reaction that generally requires higher temperatures to achieve commercially viable yields (>823 K). Under the tough operating conditions, side reactions are promoted even more dramatically.4,19 The strong acid sites can catalyze cracking, hydrogenolysis and isomerization reactions, over which the coke precursors formed would be further transformed to coke through polymerization and aromatization, thus inevitably causing rapid catalyst deactivation.4,20,21 As reported, the catalytic behaviors of the acid sites are dependent on their type, strength and amount. Therefore, the ability to control the natural property of the acid sites is of great significance in improving the utilization efficiency of alumina-supported catalysts.
Recently, it was demonstrated that the control of the synthesis processes is a useful way to modulate the nature of the acid sites on the surface of alumina, and the catalysts used displayed excellent reactivity and superior stability in the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane.21,22 Compared with propane molecules, isobutane molecules with more CC and CH bonds are easier to activate under the same reaction conditions. The unwanted side reactions are promoted dramatically to lead to more by-products and coke formation. In the present study, a gamma-alumina nanosheet was synthesized and used as a support for a PtSn catalyst, which displayed an excellent anti-coke property in an isobutane dehydrogenation reaction. The structure and chemical properties of the support and catalyst were characterized by XRD, 27Al MAS NMR, CO-DRIFT and NH3-TPD. The detailed location and structure of the coke over the spent PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst were determined by a combination of TG-MS, HRTEM, FT-IR and Raman techniques. Furthermore, the relationship between the catalyst structure and coking properties over such a unique catalyst was determined. This fundamental understanding will help researchers to obtain suitable catalysts for industrial dehydrogenation processes. 2 Experimental
2.1 Alumina preparation
The alumina nanosheet was synthesized according to a method in previous work by Wang et al., but with slight modification.23 Typical synthesis procedures are as follows: 6.4 g of aluminum nitrate nonahydrate (Al(NO3)3·9H2O) and 9.3 g of urea (CO(NH2)2) were dissolved in deionized water with magnetic stirring for 15 min. The urea was added to the solution as precipitating agent. Then, the solution was placed in a 100 mL Teflon-lined stainless autoclave and maintained at 100 C for 48 h. The urea provided amino functional groups, which induced self-assembly of a sheet structure via hydrogen bonding at optimal conditions. After air-cooling to room temperature, the white precipitate was filtered and washed several times with deionized water and anhydrous alcohol, and then dried in a vacuum oven at 80 C for 12 h. Finally, the γ-Al2O3 was obtained by calcination of the powder in air at 600 C for 2 h with a heating rate of 1 C min1. The final product was denoted as Al2O3-NS. The specific surface area of Al2O3-NS was 228 m2 g1 calculated from N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms, and TEM image showed the sheet-like morphology.
2.2 Catalyst preparation
An alumina nanosheet supported platinumtin catalyst (PtSnAl2O3-NS) was synthesized using the incipient wetness co-impregnation method with H6PtCl6·6H2O and SnCl2·2H2O as the precursors, in which the theoretical amounts of Pt and SnO2 loaded were 0.5 wt% and 1.0 wt%, respectively. Next, the appropriate amounts of precursors were dissolved in ethanol. After impregnation, the samples were maintained at room temperature for 2 h and then dried at 50 C for 12 h. This was followed by calcination in 20% O2/N2 at 500 C for 4 h and then reduced in a 20% H2/N2 atmosphere at 590 C for 2 h. For comparison, a commercial alumina was calcined at 600 C (denoted as Al2O3-Ref, SBET = 241 m2 g1) and used to prepare the reference sample, which was denoted as PtSnAl2O3-Ref.
2.3 Catalyst characterizations
X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) measurements were obtained on a PANalytical X'Pert3 Powder diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation (λ = 0.15406 nm). The tube voltage was 40 kV, and the current was 40 mA. All the NMR spectra were recorded on an Agilent DD2 500 MHz spectrometer. The 27Al MAS NMR experiments were carried out at 130.2 MHz using a 4 mm MAS NMR probe with a spinning rate of 14 kHz. The spectra were accumulated for 120 scans with a 2 s recycle delay. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) spectra were recorded on a Nicolet 6700 FT-IR spectrometer equipped with a mercury cadmium telluride (MCT) detector and KBr windows. Diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform (DRIFT) spectra were recorded on a Bruker Vertex 70v spectrometer with an in situ reaction cell (Harrick) and an MCT detector cooled by liquid nitrogen. A sample of 50 mg was reduced at 590 C for 2 h under 20% H2/Ar. A flow of 10 mL min1 of CO was continued for 5 min. Temperature programmed desorption of ammonia (NH3-TPD) was carried out on a Micromeritics AutoChem II 2920 instrument. Typically, the sample was pretreated in a flow of He (50 ml min1) at 500 C for 1 h. After the temperature cooled to 100 C, the sample was pulsed six times with ammonia gas. Then the gas phase NH3 was removed by He purging for an hour followed by TPD which was performed in a He flow (50 ml min1) at a heating rate of 10 C min1, and the desorbed mixture was monitored with a TCD detector, the desorption of NH3 was monitored by on-line mass spectrometry (MS). The amount of coke deposited was determined by combustion of the deposited material in a thermogravimetric (TG) analyzer Netzsch STA 449 F3. Prior to combustion, the spent catalyst was pre-treated with flowing He (40 ml min1) at 200 C for 1 h, and then cooled to ambient temperature under He. Finally, the sample was exposed to a mixture of 20% O2 in N2 flowing at 20 ml min1 and oxidized from the ambient temperature to 900 C at a heating rate of 10 C min1. The CO2 generated was monitored by on-line MS. The TEM images were recorded on a FEI Tecnai F30 microscope, operating at an accelerating voltage of 300 kV. Raman spectroscopy was performed to investigate the coke deposited after isobutane dehydrogenation at room temperature on a DL-2 microscopic Raman spectrometer with a 532 nm Ar-ion laser beam. The laser power was 10 mW, and the resolution of the apparatus was 2 cm1. The data acquisition time was 10 s, and three scans were acquired depending on the strength of the carbon signal.
2.4 Catalytic tests
The catalytic performance was tested in a tubular fixed-bed quartz reactor (ID = 8 mm) at atmospheric pressure. The temperature of the reactor was controlled by a Yudian AI temperature controller (XMYE-8000). A portion of 100 mg of catalyst was used in each experiment. A reaction gas mixture with a certain volume ratio was passed through the catalyst bed at 560 C. The products were analyzed using an on-line gas chromatograph. Alumina packed and molecular sieve 5A columns were used to determine the amount of N2, H2, C4H10, C4H8, C3H8, C3H6, C2H4, C2H6, and CH4 in the products.
Conversion: Con. (%) = {[Fin(C4H10)  Fout(C4H10)]/Fin(C4H10)} × 100 Selectivity:where i represents hydrocarbon products in the effluent gas stream, ni is the number of carbon atoms of component i, and F(i) is the corresponding flow rate.
A first-order deactivation model was used to evaluate the catalyst stability: Kd = {ln[(1  Xfinal)/Xfinal]  ln[(1  Xinitial)/Xinitial]}/t where Xinitial and Xfinal, represent the conversion measured at the start and the end of an experiment, respectively, and t represents the reaction time (h), kd is the deactivation rate constant (h1). Higher kd values were indicative of rapid deactivation, that is, low stability. 3 Results and discussion
3.1 Catalytic performance
The catalytic performances of the as-synthesized catalyst as well as the reference catalyst in the isobutane dehydrogenation reaction are shown in Fig. 1. Notably, the initial isobutane conversion over the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst (54.6%) was much higher than that over the PtSnAl2O3-Ref catalyst (43.5%), as was the isobutene selectivity (Fig. 1a). As far as the product distribution was concerned, in addition to the desired product, isobutene, cracking and isomerization products could be also detected (Fig. 1b). The isobutane selectivity was 98.6% for the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst, whereas the selectivity for cracking and isomerization products was close to 20% for the reference catalyst, which implied that the as-synthesized catalyst could significantly suppress the side reactions. During the dehydrogenation process, the isobutene formation rate dramatically dropped from 15.1 to 9.9 mol gPt1 h1 for PtSn/Al2O3-Ref after 24 h on stream (Fig. S1, ESI). As a contrast, it was observed that there was significant enhancement in terms of reactivity and stability for PtSn/Al2O3-NS, and the isobutene formation rate only slightly decreased from 23.0 to 19.8 mol gPt1 h1. The final isobutene formation rate for the as-synthesized catalyst was twice that of the reference catalyst, and at the same time the selectivity to isobutane increased to 99.5% for PtSn/Al2O3-NS at a 46.5% conversion compared to 86.2% for PtSn/Al2O3-Ref at a 27.1% conversion. Moreover, the isobutene selectivity over PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst remained high, and the selectivity was unchanged when the weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) was decreased from 24.8 h1 to 6.2 h1 (Fig. 1c). This trend might be related to the efficient mass-transfer characteristics of the sheet-like construction, which can in principle inhibit the undesired secondary reaction.22 To further evaluate the catalytic performance of isobutane dehydrogenation, the activities of the isobutene formation rate were normalized by using different contents of platinum for the catalysts described in this work and in the literature, and the results are listed in Table 1. It can be seen that the as-synthesized catalyst displayed a very high catalytic activity for producing isobutene (1.25 moli-C4H8 molPt1 s1). In addition, the performance of the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst was examined for successive oxidationreduction cycles (Fig. 1d). The isobutane conversion being above 50% and the isobutene selectivity was close to 99% which remained almost unchanged as the number of cycles increased, demonstrating its good stability of dehydrogenation and regeneration. Together with the superior reactivity and regenerative ability, such a catalyst provided a potential alternative to use of state-of-the-art platinum catalysts in isobutane dehydrogenation.Fig. 1 The dependence of isobutane conversion and isobutene selectivity on reaction time (a), products' distribution (b), catalytic performance at different WHSV (c), dehydrogenationregeneration cycles over the fresh PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst (d).Table 1 Catalytic performances in isobutane dehydrogenation over the Pt-based catalysts Catalysts T (C) WHSV [h1] Con. [%] Sel. [%] Specific activitya [s1] kdb [h1] Ref.Initial Final Initial Final
0.5%PtSn/Al2O3-NS 560 12.4 54.6 46.5 98.6 99.5 1.25 0.0135 This work
0.4%PtInSn/ZnAl2O4 550 4.0 54.3 38.5 93.9 96.8 0.48 0.0801 24
0.3%PtSnLa/Al2O3 590 1.55 54.1 49.4 90.2 96.9 0.24 0.0513 25
0.5%PtSnK/Al2O3 580 2.0 56.7 49.2 79.9 90.9 0.17 0.0018 26
2%PtSn/CeO2/C 520 24.8 37.0 18.0 90.0 100.0 0.39 0.0051 27
0.58%PtSn/KL 600 13.2 61.0 46.0 92.0 99.8 1.19 0.0048 28
0.5%PtSnKLa/Al2O3 590 5.18 51.9 49.3 93.5 96.0 0.47 0.0130 29
a Specific activity, moles of isobutene per mole of platinum atoms per second. b kd, deactivation rate constant, calculated from ln[(1  Xfinal)/Xfinal] = kd × t + ln[(1  Xintial)/Xintial].
3.2 The structure and property of the supports and fresh catalysts
To identify the origin of the variation in catalytic performance of different catalysts, the structure and property of the supports and corresponding catalysts were characterized and analyzed as follows. The XRD patterns are presented in Fig. 2a, where both types of alumina displayed similar diffraction peaks at 45.8 and 66.9, which were assigned to the γ-Al2O3 phase. No diffraction peaks of platinum or tin were observed in the corresponding catalysts, indicating that those species were highly dispersed and/or due to their low loading. It is worth noting that the intensity of the diffraction peak was much stronger and a new diffraction peak at about 22 had appeared in spectrum of the reference alumina. The different types of crystallinity in the alumina reflected the different coordination structures of Al3+, which could influence the dispersion of loaded species as well as the metalsupport interaction, and thereby lead to different catalytic performances.30 The 27Al MAS NMR spectra of the supports and catalysts gave detailed information about the coordination structure of Al3+ (Fig. 2b and Table S1, ESI). All samples exhibited two peaks at 10 and 68 ppm, representing the Al3+ ions in octahedral and tetrahedral coordination, respectively. In addition, there was a rather obvious NMR peak at 35 ppm in Al2O3-NS, which was assigned to the Al3+ ions in an unsaturated pentahedral coordination.31 After loading the active components, the Al3+ ions with pentahedral coordination decreased and simultaneously the Al3+ ions in octahedral coordination increased. The quantification results clearly suggested that the loaded active components interacted preferentially with the Al3+ ions in unsaturated pentahedral coordination to achieve a more stable state. The DRIFTS spectra of adsorbed CO on platinum-based catalysts are shown in Fig. 2c. For the PtAl2O3 catalyst, both samples exhibited a broad band between 20002100 cm1, which were indicative of linear-bonded CO on different lattice faces of the Pt nanoparticles.32 The bands at 2076 cm1 could be assigned to the linear adsorption of CO on the Pt sites with saturated coordination, whereas the bands at 2050 cm1 corresponded to the coordinatively unsaturated Pt sites.32 After the addition of tin, the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst showed a new and strong band at 2003 cm1 and the band at 2050 cm1 vanished, whereas the PtSnAl2O3-Ref catalyst only showed a single band at 2064 cm1. The disappearance of one band and the appearance of the new band indicated that there were strong electronic interactions between platinum and tin on the as-synthesized alumina.22 The temperature-programmed reduction by hydrogen (H2-TPR) is a useful tool to study the interaction. In Fig. S3 (ESI), the H2-TPR profiles of the supported platinum or/and tin samples are shown. The spectra of both samples showed a broad peak that was assigned to the reduction of SnO2 to SnO or metallic Sn (Fig. S3(a), ESI). It was noted that the SnOxAl2O3-NS sample had a lower hydrogen consumption compared to the reference sample, implying that more Sn2+ species existed in this sample after reduction. This result reveals that the Al2O3 nanosheet could inhibit the reduction of the tin species. The TPR profiles of the PtAl2O3 samples showed two peaks that indicated the differences in the interactions between the Pt species and the Al2O3 support. The TPR profiles of both PtSnAl2O3 catalysts showed a main reduction peak between 100 C and 400 C. The reducibility of the Pt species strengthened when there was a coexistence of Pt and Sn species, indicating that there was an interaction between the PtSn, which was consistent with the CO-DRIFT results (Fig. 2c). Moreover, the decreased frequency of the CO vibration demonstrated that the electron density of platinum was increasing. In isobutane dehydrogenation, the strong interaction between the platinum and the π-electrons of the olefins may lead to deep dehydrogenation of the olefins to coke precursors, thus suppressing the isobutene selectivity. The increase of electron density for platinum species was beneficial for the electron-rich olefin products desorption and minimized coke formation on the metal sites.3335 As a consequence, the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst exhibited high isobutene selectivity and superior stability in the isobutane dehydrogenation process. It has been reported previously, that catalytic performances were closely related to the surface acidity of catalysts in the alkane dehydrogenation process.21,36,37 To determine the acid properties of different catalysts, NH3-TPD was employed to determine the amount and strength of the acid sites on the surface. As can be seen from Fig. 2d, the two catalysts displayed a similar curve shape presenting a broad desorption peak range between 100 and 500 C, and the desorption curves were deconvoluted into three fitted peaks by using a Gaussian function. Additionally, the semi-quantitative results of the amount of acidity and strength distribution are summarized in Table S2 (ESI). The peaks located at 160240 C and 280320 C were assigned to the weak acid sites and medium-strong acid sites, respectively. The temperature of maximum (Tmax) of each desorption peak was similar, whereas the distribution was significantly different in two types of catalysts. Compared to the reference catalyst, the total acidity and the fraction of medium-strong acid sites were fewer in the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst. Previous studies have demonstrated that the medium-strong acid sites could catalyze cracking/isomerization side-reactions and this would increase the carbon formation during the dehydrogenation reaction, which had an adverse effect on the dehydrogenation process.4,21,38 Thus, it was reasonable to conclude that the catalyst using as-synthesized alumina as the support possessed a moderate acidity that could minimize the undesirable side reactions and inhibit the coke formation. In other words, this catalyst is favorable for the improvement of the catalytic reactivity.
Fig. 2 The XRD patterns and 27Al MAS NMR spectra of alumina and catalysts (a and b), the CO-DRIFT spectra of the synthesized Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 samples (c), and the NH3-TPD profiles for PtSnAl2O3-NS and PtSnAl2O3-Ref catalysts (d).
3.3 The structure and property of the spent catalysts
The deactivation of the two catalysts during the isobutane dehydrogenation process can be attributed to the coke deposition, which covered the active sites and subsequently reduced the available active sites for the reaction. A first-order deactivation model was used to estimate the catalyst stability.22 The low deactivation rate of 0.0135 h1 for PtSnAl2O3-NS quantitatively demonstrated its high stability when compared to that of the reference catalyst (0.0303 h1) throughout the duration of the 24 h test of the catalyst. To obtain detailed information about the coke formed during the isobutane dehydrogenation, the spent catalysts were collected for analysis and these analysis results are discussed in the following sections. The amount of coke deposited on the spent catalysts was determined by TG analysis in a temperature-programmed oxidation mode (TPO), and the weight loss curves of the two deactivated samples and corresponding digital photographs are shown in Fig. 3a. It was observed that the amount of coke deposited on the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst (4.0%) was slightly lower than that on the PtSnAl2O3-Ref catalyst (4.3%). At the same time, the MS signal of CO2 under TPO was determined to investigate the location of the coke deposit. Generally, the coke deposited at the temperature range of 350550 C could be attributed to the one that covered the metal sites and that was in the vicinity of the metal sites, whereas the coke deposited at a higher temperature was the one that was on the support surface.4 For the spent, as-synthesized catalyst, Fig. 3b displayed a distinct peak in the range 550650 C, which suggesting that more coke was deposited on the support surface. Such phenomena resulted in the inhibition of coke deposition on metal sites and prevented the reduction of the available active sites during the isobutane dehydrogenation process.4,20 The representative HRTEM images of the spent catalysts collected during 24 h on stream are shown in Fig. 4. Apparently, some substances with a nonuniform structure were located on the metal particles and in the vicinity of the metal particles for the spent PtSnAl2O3-Ref catalyst, which was different from what happened with the as-synthesized catalyst. The coke deposits physically covered the Pt surface, resulting in lower availability of active sites, and thus, catalyst deactivation. This was consistent with the previous conclusion.4,39 Fig. 3 The TG-MS profiles and digital photographs (a and b), FT-IR spectra (c) and Raman spectra (d) for the spent PtSnAl2O3-NS and PtSnAl2O3-Ref catalysts.
Fig. 4 The HRTEM images of the spent PtSnAl2O3-NS and PtSnAl2O3-Ref catalysts collected after 24 h on stream.
It is worth noting that the color of the as-synthesized catalyst was pale gray after a 24 h test, whereas that of the reference catalyst was dark black (Fig. 3a). The different colors of the two types of spent catalysts may be related to the different coke species, which was further investigated by using FT-IR and Raman spectroscopy. As shown in Fig. 3c, the two main adsorption bands between 1400 and 1650 cm1 could be observed on the spent catalysts. The former adsorption band could be ascribed to the skeleton vibrations of aliphatics, whereas the latter band could be assigned to the vibrations of CC in the aromatics.4 In particular, the relative ratio of aliphatics and aromatics was significantly higher in the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst compared to that in the reference catalyst. Aliphatic carbon with a low C/H ratio was prone to being combusted easier than the aromatic carbon species during the regeneration process.40 The Raman spectrum of the spent catalysts is displayed in Fig. 3d, and spectra of the two catalysts possessed a similar appearance. To further determine the detailed coke composition, the profiles were fitted by a Gaussian function.41 The main peak with a shoulder centered at 12001400 cm1 corresponded to the disordered graphite. The most intensive of them was the D1 band, which appeared at 1330 cm1, and corresponded to a graphitic lattice vibration mode with A1g symmetry. The shoulder peak at 1205 cm1, designated as a D4 band, could be assigned to the sp2sp3 bonds or CC and CC stretching vibrations of polyene-like structures. The peak at 1512 cm1 could be ascribed to amorphous carbon, such as conjugated olefinic species or polyenes (D3). The G band at about 1575 cm1 corresponded to an ideal graphitic lattice vibration mode with E2g symmetry, which shifted to a higher wavenumber (1605 cm1) for both catalysts, indicating that the crystal size of the coke could be small. These results indicated that the coke deposits on these catalysts were highly disordered in nature. To quantitatively evaluate the degree of disorder of the coke, the ratios of the D to G band are summarized in Table S3 (ESI). The ID1/IG ratio for the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst was higher than that for the reference catalyst, as was the AD1/AG, which indicated that the coke deposited on the laboratory-made catalyst was more carbon deficient and amorphous with a low C/H ratio, which was consistent with the results obtained from the spectra of FT-IR. Previous research had proved that the low C/H ratio of coke was beneficial for its elimination during combustion,40 which may be the reason that the as-synthesized catalyst showed an excellent regeneration performance in the isobutane dehydrogenation reaction. 4 Conclusions In this work, a defect-rich alumina nanosheet was synthesized hydrothermally, and the corresponding Pt-based catalyst was applied in an isobutane dehydrogenation reaction to investigate the catalytic performance. The as-synthesized alumina containing a considerable content of unsaturated coordinate Al3+ enhanced the electronic interactions between the platinum and tin species to tune the electronic state of platinum, and the lower acidity of the corresponding catalyst could inhibit the side reactions and coke formation. As a consequence, it was observed that this catalyst facilitated excellent catalytic reactivity and stability in the isobutane dehydrogenation reaction. The use of the laboratory-made catalyst facilitated an isobutene formation rate of 23.0 mol gPt1 h1 with a low deactivation rate of 0.0135 h1, whereas those values for the reference catalyst were 15.1 mol gPt1 h1 and 0.0303 h1, respectively. Furthermore, more coke species were located on the as-synthesized support surface, and the coke possessed more aliphatics and a higher degree of disorder, which was beneficial for its elimination during the combustion process, and the cycling experiments demonstrated that the PtSnAl2O3-NS catalyst exhibited excellent regeneration performance with the isobutane conversion being above 50% in all the recycling tests, and the isobutene selectivity which was close to 99% remained almost unchanged. Therefore, the as-synthesized alumina for the Pt-based catalysts could facilitate the isobutane dehydrogenation reaction.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How has propene's significance in the chemical industry evolved, and in what ways does its increasing demand drive the adoption of propane dehydrogenation as a preferred production method? Additionally, what are the economic and environmental advantages of this approach in meeting the growing needs for this versatile olefin across various applications?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 