element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
Carbon
Volume 103
, July 2016, Pages 449-456
Nano-size boron carbide intercalated graphene as high performance catalyst supports and electrodes for PEM fuel cells
Author links open overlay panel
Shichun Mu
,
Xu Chen
,
Ronghui Sun
,
Xiaobo Liu
,
Hui Wu
,
Daping He
,
Kun Cheng
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2016.03.044
Get rights and content
Abstract
The low utilization and stability of noble-metal catalysts is always a big barrier to commercialize proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cells. Here we report a positive progress on stabilizing the catalyst by modulating 2D graphene as an advanced support of Pt nanoparticles, where the interlayer of graphene is near perfectly intercalated by nano-B4C ceramics. The strong restriction effect of nano-ceramics in graphene interlayers, can greatly improves the usage and electrochemical stability of Pt catalysts. As results, our new graphene/B4C supported Pt catalyst (Pt-RGO/B4C) shows greatly enhanced electrochemical surface area (121 m2 g−1) and mass activity (185 A g−1 Pt) towards oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), which is remarkably higher than the reduced graphene oxide (RGO) supported Pt (Pt/RGO) catalyst and the commercial Pt/C catalyst. In addition, the Pt-RGO/B4C electrode also possesses higher fuel cell performance than the Pt/RGO electrode. Especially, after the electrochemical acceleration test for 10000 cycles, our new catalyst presents an excellent stability, even retains 45.2% initial electrochemical surface area, while the Pt/RGO and Pt/C are only 29.7 and 23.4%, respectively. These indicate our unique catalyst is promising to allow the PEM fuel cell have high ORR activity and stability.
Previous article
Next article
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.