<quotes>
(1) "The reversibly adsorbed hydrogen and deuterium on zinc oxide at -195 and -183" (type 1 1 1 ) has been examined by adsorption and ir techniques. The isotherms show a significant isotope effect and yield isosteric heats at low coverage of 2.2-2.5 kcal. Infrared studies and the temperature and pressure dependence show this hydrogen is present in molecular form and is limited to 5 to 10% of the surface."
(2) "Infrared studies provide the strongest evidence that hydrogen ad- sorption on at least some metalsSJ0 and oxides11 is atom- ic."
(3) "The amount of adsorption is extensive insofar as it approaches half the nitrogen V, value at 1 atm and -195"."
(4) "The isotope effect is also reflected in isosteric heats shown in Figure 2. Values for both hydrogen and deuterium approach a common value at high coverage, but at low coverage, the value is about 2.2 kcal for hydrogen compared to 2.5 kcal for deu- terium."
(5) "In a recent paper from this laboratoryz1 it was noted that the ratio of pressures for different isotopes at fixed 6 should be represented by the formula where Q is the partition function for the indicated gaseous species and q is the partition function for the indicated adsorbed species (including zero point energies) at zero coverage."
(6) "The Journal of Physical Chemistry, Vol. 77, No. 22, 1973 The Nature o f Molecular Hydrogen Adsorbed on Zinc Oxide 2635"
(7) "The Journal of Physical Chemistry, Vol. 77, No. 22, 1973"
(8) "The adsorption measurements were made on a 23.0-g sample of zinc oxide pressed into disks similar to those used in ir studies and broken into large chunks."
(9) "Type I1 is unreactive in ethylene hydrogena- tion20 and hydrogen-deuterium exchange.lg Type I is re- active and ir studies suggest that it forms ZnH and OH bonds by dissociation on a limited number of zinc oxide pair sites."
(10) "The Journal of Physical Chemistry, Vol. 77, No. 22, 1973"
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The nature of molecular hydrogen adsorbed on zinc oxide was investigated using adsorption and infrared (IR) techniques. The adsorption isotherms showed a significant isotope effect and yielded isosteric heats of 2.2-2.5 kcal at low coverage. IR studies and temperature-pressure dependence revealed that this hydrogen is present in a molecular form, occupying approximately 5 to 10% of the surface. The isotope effect was confirmed by the ratio of pressures for different isotopes, which was calculated using the partition function formula. The adsorption measurements were conducted on a zinc oxide sample prepared similarly to those used for IR studies. Type I hydrogen is reactive and forms ZnH and OH bonds by dissociation on a limited number of zinc oxide sites, while type I1 hydrogen is unreactive in certain reactions like ethylene hydrogenation and hydrogen-deuterium exchange.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在锌氧化物上吸附的分子氢的性质通过吸附和红外（IR）技术进行了研究。吸附等温线显示了显著的同位素效应，并在低覆盖率下获得了2.2-2.5 kcal的等热值。红外（IR）研究和温度-压力依赖性表明，这种氢以分子形式存在，占表面的约5到10%。通过不同同位素压力比的比率验证了同位素效应，该比率使用分区函数公式计算。进行了吸附测量，样品准备方式类似于用于IR研究的样品。类型I氢是反应性的，通过在锌氧化物的有限数量的对位点上解离形成ZnH和OH键。而类型I1氢在某些反应如乙烯氢化和氢-氘交换中不反应。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
