<quotes>
(1) "Heterogeneous catalysts that are effective for hydrogen- ation reactions usually are also effective for hydrogen- deuterium exchange (and the related parahydrogen con- version) The nature of the "activated" hydrogen in these catalytic sequences has been the subject of much peculation."
(2) "Often, it is assumed that this reactive molecular hydrogen species is weakly adsorbed."
(3) "At present, it is not clear whether the "active" form of hydrogen is only atomic or includes a molecular species."
(4) "The nature of adsorbed hydrogen has also been exam- ined by a number of nonmechanistic techniques. Infrared studies provide the strongest evidence that hydrogen ad- sorption on at least some metalsSJ0 and oxides11 is atom- ic."
(5) "This view is reinforced by recent observations in this labo- ratory of ir bands due to molecular species when hydrogen is adsorbed on zinc oxide at low temperature.l7"
(6) "We term this molecular hy- drogen species."
(7) "We have devised a way to separate it from the type I adsorption which also occurs readily at these low temperatures."
(8) "Further- more, there appears to be a significant isotope effect for hydrogen compared to deuterium."
(9) "The bands for molecular adsorption on zinc oxide are quite different from those assigned to "physical adsorp- tion" on porous glass.18,25"
(10) "In order to specify the adsorption characteristics of the molecular species (termed type 1 1 1 ) responsible for the ir spectra, we must devise a scheme for subtracting out the physical adsorption contributions to the vo,lumetric iso- therms in Figure 1."
(11) "Contributions of physical adsorption should be most pronounced at higher pressures and should occur with heats of adsorption more comparable to the heat of liquefaction (0.216 kcal/moll7) than the initial heats, characteristic of type 111 hydrogen."
(12) "The above experiments suggest that type I11 hydrogen adsorption occurs on a fraction of the surface comparable to that responsible for type I adsorption."
(13) "There are, of course, other interpre- tations possible but the simplest, provisional interpreta- tion of these results is that type I and type I11 hydrogen adsorption occurs on the same sites."
(14) "We regard this type of adsorbed molecular hydrogen as a prime candidate for the interme- diate in ortho-para conversion, The transition from an ortho to a para state is governed by terms of the kind where $ and E are the wave functions and energies for ortho and para states."
(15) "Our spectral data suggest we are approaching the limit where- in low-lying levels become degenerate ortho-para levels and this conclusion is independent of the detailed form of the potential function defining the barrier."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Heterogeneous catalysts that are effective for hydrogenation reactions often also work for hydrogen-deuterium exchange and parahydrogen conversion. The nature of the "activated" hydrogen in these processes has been a subject of speculation.
2. It is commonly assumed that the reactive molecular hydrogen species involved is weakly adsorbed onto the catalyst surface.
3. The exact form of the activated hydrogen, whether it is atomic or includes a molecular species, remains unclear.
4. Infrared studies offer strong evidence that hydrogen adsorption on metals and oxides is predominantly atomic.
5. Recent observations in the laboratory have confirmed the presence of molecular hydrogen species when hydrogen is adsorbed on zinc oxide at low temperatures.
6. A method has been devised to distinguish this molecular hydrogen species from type I adsorption that also occurs at low temperatures.
7. There is a noticeable isotope effect, indicating a difference in the adsorption behavior of hydrogen versus deuterium.
8. The bands for molecular hydrogen adsorption on zinc oxide differ significantly from those of physical adsorption on porous glass.
9. A scheme has been created to subtract out the physical adsorption contributions from the volumetric isotherms.
10. Physical adsorption is expected to be more pronounced at higher pressures, with heats of adsorption closer to the liquefaction heat of hydrogen.
11. The type I11 hydrogen adsorption occurs on a portion of the surface similar to that of type I adsorption.
12. The simplest explanation for the results is that both type I and type I11 hydrogen adsorption take place on the same sites.
13. Molecular hydrogen adsorbed onto zinc oxide is considered a likely intermediate in the ortho-para conversion process.
14. The transition from ortho to para states is influenced by wave functions and energies for ortho and para states, indicating a significant barrier to rotation.
15. The conclusion that low-lying levels become degenerate ortho-para levels is independent of the potential function's specific form that defines the barrier.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 对于氢化反应有效的异相催化剂，通常也适用于氢氘交换和过氢化物转换。这些催化序列中“激活”氢的性质一直是猜测的对象。
2. 常见的假设是，参与反应的分子氢物种是弱吸附在催化剂表面的。
3. 目前尚不清楚“活性”氢是否仅以原子形式存在或包含分子物种。
4. 红外研究表明，氢吸附到金属和氧化物上主要是原子性的。
5. 实验室近期观察证实，当氢在锌氧化合物上低温吸附时，会出现分子形式的氢谱带。
6. 已经开发出一种方法来区分这种分子氢物种与在低温下也容易出现的类型I吸附。
7. 存在一个明显的同位素效应，表明氢和重氢在吸附行为上的差异。
8. 锌氧化合物上的分子氢吸附谱与多孔玻璃上的物理吸附谱显著不同。
9. 已经建立了一种方案来从体积等温线中减去物理吸附贡献。
10. 物理吸附在高压下更为明显，吸附热接近氢液化的热能（0.216 kcal/mol）。
11. 类型I11氢吸附发生在表面的一定比例上，类似于类型I吸附。
12. 最简单的解释是，类型I和类型I11氢吸附发生在相同的吸附位点。
13. 锌氧化合物上的吸附分子氢被认为是过氢化过程中的一个潜在中间体。
14. 从正交到顺式状态的转换受正交和顺式状态的波函数和能量的影响，这表明旋转有很高的障碍。
15. 关于低能级成为正交-顺式的等能级的结论与定义障碍的具体势函数形式无关。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
