I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


2634
C. C. Chang, L. T. Dixon, and R. J. Kokes
(12) J. W. Simons and T. B. Flanagan, Can. J. Chem., 43,1665 (1965) (13) T. B. Flanagan and W. A. Oates, Ber. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem..
(14) J. D. Clewley, T. Curran, T. B. Flanagan, and W. A. Oates, J.
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1, 69, 449 (1973).
(15) R. Burch, Trans. FaradaySoc., 66, 749 (1970).
(16) H. Brodowskv, Z. Phvs. Chem. (Frankfurt am Main), 44, 129 76, 706 (1972).
(1965).
(17) D. M. Nace and J. G. Aston, J. Amer. Chem. SOC., 79, 3619, 3623,3627 (1957).
(18) E.g., G. C. Bond, "Catalysis by Metals," Academic Press, London,
1962.
(19) B, Baranowski, Ber. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem., 76, 714 (1972).
(20) 13.
A. Dowden in "Chemisorption," W. E. Garner, Ed., Butterworths,
London, 1958.
(21) J. C. P. Mignolet, Buii. SOC.
Chim., 67, 358 (1958).
(22) P. M. Gundry and F. C. Tompkins, Trans. Faraday Soc., 52,1609 (1956).
(23) T. Toya, Progr. Theoret. Phys. Suppl., 23,250 (1962).
(24) N. F. Mott and H. Jones, "Theory of Metals and Alloys," Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1936.
(25) C.
A. Mackleit and A. I. Schindler, Phys. Rev., 146,
A463 (1966).
(26) 0. Johnson, J. Res. Inst. Catal, Hokkaido Univ., 20,95, 109, 125 (1972).
(27) F. A. Lewis, Naturwissenschaften, 48, 402 (1961).
(28) M. von Stackelberg and P. Ludwig, Z. Naturforsch., 19, 93 (1964).
(29) H. Brodowsky, Ber. Bunsenges. phys. Chem., 76, 740 (1972).
(30) C. Wagner, Acta Met., 19,843 (1971). ?he Nature of Molecular Hydrogen Adsorbed on Zinc Oxide
C. C. Chang, L. T. Dixon, and R.
J. Kokes*
Department of Chemistry, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218 (Received May 23, 1973) Publication costs assisted by the Petroleum Research Fund The reversibly adsorbed hydrogen and deuterium on zinc oxide at -195 and -183" (type 1 1 1 ) has been examined by adsorption and ir techniques. The isotherms show a significant isotope effect and yield isosteric heats at low coverage of 2.2-2.5 kcal. Infrared studies and the temperature and pressure depen- dence show this hydrogen is present in molecular form and is limited to 5 to 10% of the surface. Poison- ing studies with water suggest it occurs on the same sites as the dissociative type I hydrogen. Interpreta- tion of the spectral results and the isotope effect suggest that there is a considerable barrier to rotation on the surface. The possible role of such a species in the ortho-para hydrogen conversion is discussed.
Introduction Heterogeneous catalysts that are effective for hydrogen- ation reactions usually are also effective for hydrogen- deuterium exchange (and the related parahydrogen con- version) The nature of the "activated" hydrogen in these catalytic sequences has been the subject of much peculation. ,5 In one scheme, originally proposed by Bon- hoeffer and Farkas,6 it is assumed that hydrogen (and deuterium) adsorb dissociatively and that a random re- combination of atomic species effects the exchange. The corresponding mechanism for olefin hydrogenation as- sumes a two-step addition of adsorbed hydrogen atoms to olefins to form the product alkane. Although many fea- tures of the hydrogenation and exchange reactions are ac- counted for by the view that the "active" hydrogen in- volves only an atomic adsorbed species, there are some deficiencies in this view. In an attempt to overcome these deficiencies, Rideal7 (and later Eley5) assumed that ex- change occurs uia reaction of the adsorbed atomic species with molecular hydrogen (or deuterium). Twiggs present- ed a parallel mechanism for hydrogenation wherein mo- lecular hydrogen adds to the adsorbed olefin. Often, it is assumed that this reactive molecular hydrogen species is weakly adsorbed. Despite intensive efforts to obtain con- clusive mechanistic evidence, a firm decision between these alternatives cannot yet be made. At present, it is not clear whether the "active" form of hydrogen is only atomic or includes a molecular species.
The nature of adsorbed hydrogen has also been exam- ined by a number of nonmechanistic techniques. Infrared studies provide the strongest evidence that hydrogen ad- sorption on at least some metalsSJ0 and oxides11 is atom- ic. For years the only nonmechanistic evidence for chemi- sorbed molecular hydrogen stemmed from heat12 and ad- sorption measurement at low temperatures.l* Recently,analysis of chromatographic separation of hydrogen iso- topes and allotropes strongly suggests there is a specific form of molecular hydrogen adsorption on oxides.15 This view is reinforced by recent observations in this labo- ratory of ir bands due to molecular species when hydrogen is adsorbed on zinc oxide at low temperature.l7 In this preliminary communicationl7 we noted that this species seems specific to zinc oxide and does not resemble the physically adsorbed hydrogen reported by Sheppard and Yates.18 Thus, it may play the role of the molecular inter- mediate suggested in exchange reactions over this oxide.l9 In this paper we further characterize this molecular hy- drogen species.
Experimental Section The zinc oxide used in this study was Kadox-25 ob- tained from the New Jersey Zinc Co. All gases were puri- fied, if necessary, by standard techniques.
In the standard activation procedure the sample was degassed as the temperature was gradually raised from room temperature to 450". Then oxygen was circulated The Journal oi Physical Chemistry, Vol. 77, No, 22, 1973 The Nature o f Molecular Hydrogen Adsorbed on Zinc Oxide 2635 over the catalyst with a liquid nitrogen trap in the circu- lation loop for 2 hr at 450". The sample was cooled to room temperature in dry oxygen and briefly degassed prior to the adsorption experiments. Previous experiments had shown thiat a sample thus treated had the same hy- drogen adsorption characteristics as one activated in vac- uum but the ir transmission properties were greatly im- proved.
Techniques used in ir experiments and the cell used has been described earlier. Temperatures in ir studies are those recorded by a thermocouple in contact with the zinc oxide disk about 3 mm from the edge. Heating by the ir beam may occur inside the disk; hence, the recorded tem- perature should be viewed as approximate.
Adsorption measurements were made on a 23.0-g sam- ple of zinc oxide pressed into disks similar to those used in ir studies and broken into large chunks. After activa- tion the BET V,,, value for nitrogen was 1.61 cc/g corre- sponding to an area of 7.01 m2/g. Hydrogen and deuteri- um isotherms were run at liquid nitrogen (-195.8') and liquid oxygen temperatures (- 183"). Prior to these runs the catalyst was exposed to hydrogen at 135 mm at room temperature overnight, cooled to - 183", and evacuated for 1 hr. Check experiments revealed that essentially the same isotherms were obtained when the catalyst was cooled in hydrogen to -78", evacuated for 1 hr, and then the isotherm was run at -183". Isosteric heats of adsorp- tion for hydrogen and deuterium were computed from the Clausius-Clapeyron equation.
Results Adsorption Experiments. Two types of hydrogen chemi- sorption are evident on zinc oxide at room temperature:20 type I is rapid and reversible; type I1 is slow (in part) and irreversible. Type I1 is unreactive in ethylene hydrogena- tion20 and hydrogen-deuterium exchange.lg Type I is re- active and ir studies suggest that it forms ZnH and OH bonds by dissociation on a limited number of zinc oxide pair sites. At room temperature saturation of type I sites is evident above 50 mm. In line with this, if a sample at room temperature is exposed to hydrogen at 50 mm, there is little increase in the ZnH and OH band intensity when the sample is cooled to -195". Some time ago, Taylor and Liang13 reported that when zinc oxide is exposed to hy- drogen at 1 atm and room temperature and then cooled to - 195", there is an increase in hydrogen adsorption corre- sponding roughly V, for a nitrogen monolayer. This ad- sorption that occurs on cooling (and seems too extensive to be simple physical adsorption) gives rise to the ir bands for molecular hydrogen. We term this molecular adsorp- tion, type III.17 In order to study it we must first devise a way to separate it from the type I adsorption which also occurs readily at these low temperatures.21 We have made use of the fact that evacuation at -183" (or -78") does not remove the ZnH and OH bands characteristic of type I hydrogen, but does remove the molecular bands charac- teristic of type I11 hydrogen.17 Accordingly, low-tempera- ture adsorption isotherms were run as follows: first, after exposure to hydrogen for 16 hr at room temperature, the catalyst was cooled in hydrogen (at 135 mm) to -183" to saturate type I sites; then, the catalyst was evacuated to remove the reversible type I11 adsorption and the read- sorption on top of the irreversibly adsorbed type I adso- tion was measured. This readsorption, in principle, pro- vides isotherms for the type I 1 1 hydrogen and any physical adsorption that accompanies it. 0 8 " 100 200 300 400 5 0 0 6 0 0 Pmm Hg Figure 1. Isotherms for type I l l  hydrogen and deuterium on zinc oxide. 3 0 c 7 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 cc/g Figure 2. lsosteric heats for type I I I hydrogen and deuterium on zinc oxide.
Figure 1 shows isotherms for hydrogen and deuterium at -195 and -183" obtained by the above procedure. The amount of adsorption is extensive insofar as it approaches half the nitrogen V, value at 1 atm and -195". Further- more, there appears to be a significant isotope effect for hydrogen compared to deuterium. The isotope effect is also reflected in isosteric heats shown in Figure 2. Values for both hydrogen and deuterium approach a common value at high coverage, but at low coverage, the value is about 2.2 kcal for hydrogen compared to 2.5 kcal for deu- terium.
In a recent paper from this laboratoryz1 it was noted that the ratio of pressures for different isotopes at fixed 6 '
should be represented by the formula where Q is the partition function for the indicated gaseous species and q is the partition function for the indicated adsorbed species (including zero point energies) at zero coverage. Thus, a plot of PHz us. PD, at fixed coverages should yield a straight line through the origin. Figure 3 shows that this prediction holds fairly well and that a sin- gle straight line can be drawn through the data points at both temperatures. The slope of this line is 1.57; implica- tions of this value will be discussed in the Discussion sec- tion.
The Journal of Physical Chemistry, Vol. 77, No. 22, 1973 2636
C.
C. Chang, L. T. Dixon, and R. J. Kokes
3600 em-' 3500 4000cm-'
O
1
600 1
Y
I
I
0
I O 0
2 0 0 30 0 400
P
mm H
D2
Figure 3. PI%,vs. PD, at fixed 8 :e,-195"; 0 ,-183'.Infrared Studies. When the infrared cell containing zinc oxide is exposed to hydrogen and cooled to -195", bands are observed at 3502 and 1691 cm-l, corresponding to the OH and ZnH bands previously assigned to type I hydro- gen.9,21 In addition a somewhat weaker band is observed at 4019 cm-1 in a region near the upper limits of the spectrometer (Figure 4). This high-frequency band disap- pears after a brief evacuation whereas the bands ascriba- ble to type I hydrogen are unaffected by evacuation at this temperature. If, after evacuation at - 195", the sample is exposed to deuterium, no bands due to OD and ZnD are observed, presumably, because the type I sites are satu- rated with hydrogen. A new band does appear, however,at 2887 cm-I. This band, presumably due to adsorbed deuterium, is still evident when the temperature is raised to -183" (Figure 4). Even after exposure to deuterium for several hours at -195", no OD or ZnD bands appear;hence, at -195" exchange between deuterium and type I hydrogen is a very slow process. Like the band at 4019 cm-1 (observed in hydrogen) the band at 2887 cm-I (ob- served in deuterium) disappears on brief evacuation.
These bands, together with the corresponding type I bands, are also observed when the catalyst is precooled to - 195" in helium, then evacuated, and exposed to hydro- gen (or deuterium).
When the catalyst is exposed to deuterium at room temperature, cooled to - 195", evacuated, and exposed to hydrogen, only OD (2591 cm-1) and ZnD (1219 cm-l) bands are observed along with a band at 4019 cm-I. As with the reverse process, no OH or ZnH bands appear after several hours in hydrogen even when the tempera- ture is increased to -183". Thus, cooling in deuterium to -195" saturates the type I sites and no further adsorption on or exchange with the type I sites occurs. When the type I sites are thus deuterium saturated and the catalyst is evacuated and exposed to hydrogen deuteride, a band ap- pears at 3507 cm-I (Figure 4). This band is very close to the position for the type I OH band, but it is not due to type I hydrogen for the following reasons: (a) presatura- tion of type I sites with deuterium does not permit type I hydrogen adsorption; (b) no ZnH band is observed; (6) the 3 5 0 7 -  m - band, unlike type I bands, disappears on brief evacuation. Thus, we assume the 3507-cm-l band ob- served at low temperature with hydrogen deuteride stems
I
T
I
I
Y
i x 5 40
I
9 cm-'
H - H
2900 cm-' 2800 7 -
x 5 (- 183C) r : Figure 4. Spectrum of molecular Hz, HD, and D2 on zinc oxide.
The dotted line i s the spectrum in t h e  absence of gaseous hy- drogen or its isotopes.
TABLE I: Vibration Frequencies for Molecular Hydrogen Llu w(gas)lSa o(ads),y - x 100 Species cm- cm-'
A.w,cm-'
H2
41 61 4019 142
3.41
HD
3627 3507 120
3.31
Dz 2990 2887 103
3.44
Av
3.39 & 0.05
a Reference 22 from the same species as the 4019-cm-l band for hydro- gen and the 2887-cm-l band for deuterium.
Table I compares the observed frequencies for weakly adsorbed hydrogen, hydrogen deuteride, and deuterium with the vibration frequencies tabulated by HerzbergZ2 for the gaseous species. It can be seen that the observed frequencies for the adsorbed species correspond to frequencies of gaseous molecular species with a downward shift much larger than that typically found for physically adsorbed moleules,18
L.e., about 20 cm-l. Bucking-
ham24 has formulated a perturbation treatment of shifts in vibration frequencies for diatomic molecules induced by environment. According to this treatment the shift Aw relative to the unshifted frequency should be independent of the isotopic species. The last column of Table I shows that the frequency shift for the adsorbed species is consis- tent with this prediction. Thus, these bands stem from pure vibrations of adsorbed molecular species.
The bands for molecular adsorption on zinc oxide are quite different from those assigned to "physical adsorp- tion" on porous glass.18,25 For zinc oxide h is five times that on porous glass. In simple interpretations of solvent effects,26 the size of the shifts are proportional to interac- tion potential; hence, on thid basis, the interaction poten- The Journal of Physical Chemistry, Yo/. 77, No, 22,1973 The Nature o f Iblolecular Hydrogen Adsorbed on Zinc Oxide / 2637 4 0 yo 0
X
F I R  Isotherm D ,
at - 183"( 0 50
I O 0
I 5 0
2 0 0 Figure 5. Ir isotherm for deuterium at -183". Different symbols are for different runs. tial of hydrogen with zinc oxide would be about five times that for hydrogen with porous glass provided the interac- tion distance is the same. Comparative intensity data for the two systems also suggest the interaction is greater on zinc oxide. If, like Sheppard and Yates,ls we assume the vibrational transition becomes allowed due to an effective electric surface field, we can estimate this surface field from intensity data. Our best estimate suggests the ex- tinction coefficient for hydrogen on zinc oxide is greater than that on porous glass by a factor of 65. This leads to a computed field of 0.6 V/A on zinc oxide17 compared to the reported 0.07 V/A for porous glass.ls Thus, the nature of the molecular hydrogen (gauged by ir) appears to be highly specific to the adsorbent, zinc oxide, and, in that sense, it is chemisorptin.
Isotherms based on the intensity of infrared bands as a function of pressure can be obtained for hydrogen and deuterium at both -195 and -183". A typical ir isotherm is shown for deuterium at -183" in Figure 5 .  Such iso- therms are not as precise as those obtained by volumetric measurements; the bands are weak and the reproducibili- ty of the optical density is not much better than 10%.
Furthermore, the nominal temperature may differ from the observed temperature by several degrges. Despite these uncertainties an estimate was made of the isosteric heat for deuterium based on such ir isotherms at -183 and -195". The heat of adsorption thus computed at low coverage was about 2 kcal. In view of the uncertainties, we regard this value as quite close to that based on isotherm measurements (Figure 2); hence, it is tempting to assume that the initial hydrogen adsorption determined volume- trically is the species that gives rise to the ir bands for molecular hydrogen.
In order to specify the adsorption characteristics of the molecular species (termed type 1 1 1 ) responsible for the ir spectra, we must devise a scheme for subtracting out the physical adsorption contributions to the vo,lumetric iso- therms in Figure 1. Contributions of physical adsorption should be most pronounced at higher pressures and should occur with heats of adsorption more comparable to the heat of liquefaction (0.216 kcal/moll7) than the initial heats, characteristic of type 111 hydrogen. If we plot the amount of type I11 adsorption us. the total adsorption, we would expect a linear plot through the origin at low cover- age. At higher coverages, where additional adsorption is largely physical, I11 should become independent of total coverage. This limiting coverage defines the saturation 0 4 0 1
X
' / / ' 0
0 0 0 1 0 2 0 3 cc Dz/g Figure 6. Optlcal density vs. adsorbed deuterium. 0,e,-183";0,-195". amount of type I11 hydrogen. (We have assumed that type 1 1 1 adsorption occurs with significantly higher heat than physical adsorption, a supposition in line with the spec- tral characteristics of the ir bands.) We have constructed such a plot by using the optical densities in Figure 5 as a measure of I11 and the adsorption at corresponding pres- sures in Figure 1 as a measure of the total adsorption. The plot thus obtained (Figure 6) has the correct form and suggests the total amount of type I11 adsorption is roughly
0.2 cc/g. Since the errors inherent in this procedure are
large, this value should be viewed as a tentative estimate.
The above experiments suggest that type I11 hydrogen adsorption occurs on a fraction of the surface comparable to that responsible for type I adsorption.20 This would be expected if type I and type I 1 1 adsorption occurred on the same sites. Effects of water adsorption on the hydrogen spectrum support this interpretation. Ea.rlierZ0 it was demonstrated that water adsorption selectively poisons the sites for type I adsorption. In our present study we have found that if sufficient water is adsorbed so that type I bands do not appear on exposure to hydrogen, type I11 bands are also absent. When the adsorbed water is re- moved in stages by evacuation at successively higher tem- peratures, the catalyst can be reactivated for both type I and type I11 hydrogen adsorption. Observation of the ir spectra in hydrogen during successive stages of the reacti- vation reveal that type I and type I11 bands both reappear and show a parallel growth in intensity at successive stag- es of the reactivation. There are, of course, other interpre- tations possible but the simplest, provisional interpreta- tion of these results is that type I and type I11 hydrogen adsorption occurs on the same sites.
Discussion Infrared bands for hydrogen are forbidden in the gas phase; they appear for the adsorbed species because the bond to the surface induces a dipole moment that de- pends on internuclear displacement, l . 2 8  Let us assume for simplicity that the induced dipole moment stems from an effective electric field, Eo, in some special direction la- beled the z direction. Then, there will be three compo- nents for the induced dipole
Y
,
Q Z Z E O
(24
P %
= O O Z E 0
(2b) In general as*,ayzr and uZr depend on the orientation of the diatomic molecule with respect to z. In terms of the polarization parallel and perpendicular to the molecular axis we find The Journal o f Physicai Chemistry. Vol. 77. No. 22, 7973 2638
C. C. Chang, L. T. Dixon, and R. J. Kokes
= a_ + (a,,a,) COS Q (3a!Restricted Rotor CY,, = (a,,- cyI) sin 0 cos0 cos4 (3b) a,- = ( a ,- el) sin 0 cos0 sind (3c) where 0 and (6 have their usual meaning. As required for the homonuclear diatomic molecule the sign and magni- tude of the induced dipole does not change when the mol- ecule is rotated end for end (8 -+ 7p - 8, c b - 4 + . ) .Ex- pansion of a1 and a in a power series in ( and evalua- tion of the appropriate matrix elements leads to the con- clusion that the appropriate selection rules are those usu- ally applied to the Rarnan spectra. In other words, in this limit where the diatomic is freely rotating, we should see transitions corresponding to changes in vibrational quan- tum number, n, and AJ = 0 f
2. These are the selection
rules that describe the induced spectra for gaseous hydro- gen in a static electric field.zs In adsorbed or condensed phases, however, the rotation is hindered rather than free.
One might expect, therefore, the selection rules to be modified in condensed systems. In point of fact, however,both the induced ir30 and Raman spectras1 of hydrogen in condensed phases follow selection rules appropriate for freely rotating molecules. Accordingly, in order to under- stand the effect of a barrier to rotation on the induced spectra, we must examine the characteristics of the wave functions and energy levels for a restricted rotor.
The principal limiting features of the restricted diatom- ic rotor were discussed by Pauling3I and Stern32 with the assumption that the potential barrier to rotation has the form c sin2 8. Recently, in connection with analysis of the chromatographic separation of hydrogen isotopes and allo- tropes, more detailed computations of energy levels us. barrier height have been p r e  e n t e d .   .
We have extend- ed these computations somewhat, also with the help of the tables of Stratton, et a 1 ,35 and the results are sum- marized in Figure 7
which shows the computed energy levels for a restricted deuterium rotor for rotational bar- riers of 0, I, and 5 kcal. For the free rotor, components of the degenerate levels are shown as individual lines, broken and solid, for symmetric and antisymmetric levels, re- spectively. As the barrier height is increased the energy scale in the figure is compressed; the zero, however, is kept the same and the vertical arrow, corresponding to 1 kcal, provides a gauge for the energy scale. On the right we depict the energy levels in the limit where the barrier becomes very high and the molecule undergoes only angu- lar vibrations. These energy levels are specified by the equation32
E = (A
-t- m + 1)hv m = 0 ,  f 1,f 2, ...
Thus, as the barrier height increases m for the free rotor remains a good quantum number corresponding to vi- brational angular momentum,36 but 1 loses its original meaning. Equation 4 is the equation for a doubly degener- ate vibration; the doubling of energy levels in Figure 7 stems from the same symmetry considerations that lead to inversion doubling.37 It is easy to see what happens to the selection rules for induced transitions in the limit when the barrier is high.
Transitions corresponding to AJ = &2 (refer to Figure 7) become transitions involving a change in n and a change in the torsional energy level; such combination bonds are forbidden in the harmonic oscillator approximation. Tran-
L
Y
= 0.2, ...
(4) o = - -
- - - - =-}
I
k
T
Vo 0 Kcal Io Vo = I Kcal 1 Vo L 5 Kcal Figure 7. Correlation diagram for hindered rotor. See text for details. sitions corresponding to A J  -- 0 (with Am = 0) become fundamentals and, thus, are allowed in the harmonic oscillator approximation. These conclusions can be veri- fied by computation of the relevant matrix elements with wave functions appropriate for these limits, i.e., those for the isotropic plane oscillator.32 What is the height of the rotational barrier required for transitions corresponding to LJ = -+2 to become forbid- den? Roughly, one might anticipate that libration is approximated only for barriers higher than the perturbed rotational levels. For hydrogen, with its low moment of in- ertia, and widely spaced rotational levels, the rotational barrier would have to be quite high compared to that re- quired for a molecule like nitrogen with more closely spaced rotational levels. No doubt, this is why the Raman spectra of liquid hydrogen approximates that of a freely rotating molecule whereas that of nitrogen shows a single band.38 This effect is also evident in Figure 7 .  When the barrier is 1 kcal only the lowest level approximates that for the degenerate oscillator. Even for a barrier of 5 kcal states stemming from 1 = 2 only approximate those for a degenerate oscillator.
Stratton, et a1,35 show that the wave functions corre- sponding to the energy levels depicted in Figure 7 can be expanded in a power series in associated Legendre polyno- mials and they list coefficients. We have used this tabula- tion to explore how the matrix elements governing the transitions change with barrier height. These results for the P, component show the L J  = 2 transition does not de- crease by an order of magnitude until the barrier is sever- al kcal. Computations with the Px and Py components suggest even higher barriers are required before the AJ = 2 transitions become very weak.
We have searched for a series of bands for adsorbed deuterium and have found only one. Since the shift for various isotopic species (Table I) suggests this band is a purely vibrational one, we conclude the band corresponds to AJ = 0. For freely rotating hydrogen at -195 the 3J = 0 and AJ = 2 bands are comparable in intensity.30 Thus, our failure to observe A J  = 2 bands (which means their intensity is an order of magnitude less than the AJ = 0 bands) suggests the barrier to rotation is quite high.
Accordingly, we would conclude that the first few energy levels, which are the only ones populated at this tempera- ture, correspond to torsional vibrations rather than hin- dered rotations.
The dournal of Physicai Chemistry, Voi, 77, No. 22, 1973 The Nature of Molecular Hydrogen Adsorbed on Zinc Oxide 2639 (A more realistic model should have a potential that de- pends on 0 and $. This dependence on $ can be intro- duced by a perturbation treatment. In the limit of high barriers this leads to a sequence energy levels correspond- ing to a harmonic oscillator with two different vibration frequencies. The corresponding levels, however, still occur in near degenerate pairs, consisting of wave functions symmetric and antisymmetric in inversion. Such changes in the correlation diagram do not change the selection rules in the limits and are unlikely to alter the qualitative conclusions based on the simpler $-independent model.) This detailed interpretation of the spectrum leads to the conclusion that the barrier to rotation is high but does not specify how high. In principle, measurements of the thermodynamic isotope effect coupled with heats and ir measurements should shed some light on this. We can rewrite eq 1 as a product of four terms The first factor, I, contains partition functions for transla- tion in the gas phase and in the plane of the surface ( x , y ) .
If, following King and Bensen (KB),34 we assume two- dimensional mobility on the surface I becomes l / x / T .
The second factor, 11, which includes vibrational partition functions for the stretching frequencies, can be computed from the measured ir frequencies and is 0.70. The third term, 111, is a function of barrier height and can be com- puted on the basis of the restricted rotor model by the KB procedure. The fourth term, IV, can be estimated from the measured heats by an extension of the KB treatment which assumes that the potential energy as a function of distance from the surface has the form
A
B
u(z) = - + where A and B are constants and the "best" values of m and n appear to be 5 and 9. In the harmonic oscillator ap- proximation the vibration frequency (in cm-I) perpendic- ular to the surace is given by (7) (nm)'" uO1l2 g = - -
zo
ZTCM"
where UO is the depth of the potential energy well, zo is the equilibrium distance, c is the speed of light, and M is the mass of the vibrating species if we assume the effec- tive mass of the surface is infinite. The thermodynamic energy of desorption is given by the equation est + u o - %hco (8) wherein E and c refer to the indicated energies in the gas and adsorbed phases, respectively. The value of AE is specified by the measured (initial) heat of adsorption. All terms in E and t are specified by the model except for trot.
This term can be computed as a function of the bar- rier height and u can be evaluated for each value of trot by combination of eq 7 and 8. Once u is computed the fourth factor in eq 5 can be evaluated. Computed values of the isotope effect as a function of the barrier height for two values of zo are shown in Table 1 1 .
These computations involve two assumptions: those in- herent in the restricted rotor treatment and the form of TABLE II: Computed Isotope Effect Vs. Barrier Height PHzb pD 2 pH'' IVb V o ,kcal I X I i  X Ill IVa pD2a 0
0.50
2.32
1.14
1.92
0.96
0.5
0.57
2.44
1.40
2.01
1.14
1 .o
0.78
2.57
2.00
21 .o
1.64
2.0
1.06
2.94
3.12
2.32
2.46
aThe equilibrium distance zo is assumed to be 2.5 A, /.e., approxi- mately the value used in ref 34. *The equilibrium distance zo is assumed to be 2.9 A, /.e., roughly thevan der Waals diameter. the potential function for hydrogen-surface interaction.
Despite these assumptions the only experimental input needed is the stretching frequency of hydrogen and the heat of adsorption of hydrogen. To achieve agreement of the computations with the measured isotope effect (1.57) we must assume a sizeable barrier to rotation. Insofar as this result agrees with our conclusions based on the spec- trum, the model appears to be realistic. Evaluation of the barrier height by these computations, however, is fruitless since the values n, m, and zo are uncertain and the com- putations are sensitive functions of these values. Thus, we regard our computations based on this model as useful primarily for qualitative conclusions.
Finally, let us note that we regard this type of adsorbed molecular hydrogen as a prime candidate for the interme- diate in ortho-para conversion, The transition from an ortho to a para state is governed by terms of the kind where $ and E are the wave functions and energies for ortho and para states. As pointed out by Van Cauwelaert and Hall,39 E, - E, is reduced by the imposition of a rotational barrier so that transition mechanisms trivial in the gas may become significant for the adsorbed phase.
For example, transitions involving nuclear moments may play a more important role for adsorbed species even though their rate is trivial for gas-phase  transition. Our spectral data suggest we are approaching the limit where- in low-lying levels become degenerate ortho-para levels and this conclusion is independent of the detailed form of the potential function defining the barrier. Thus. for this system the transition probability should become signifi- cant for a variety of mechanisms of only trivial impor- tance in the gas phase. We are currently exp!oring this aspect of molecular hydrogen on zinc oxide in some detail.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis, what mechanisms (such as Mars van Krevelen and H-abstraction) are involved in these processes, and how are these principles applied in industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, using the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride as a specific example?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 