Journal of Catalysis 191, 301–317 (2000)
doi:10.1006/jcat.1999.2724, available online at http://www.idealibrary.com on
Electronic Factors Governing Ethylene Hydrogenation
and Dehydrogenation Activity of Pseudomorphic
PdML/Re(0001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111),
and PdML/Au(111) Surfaces
Venkataraman Pallassana and Matthew Neurock1
Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, Thornton Hall,
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903
Received July 13, 1999; accepted October 14, 1999
DFT-GGA periodic slab calculations were used to examine
the chemisorption, hydrogenation, and dehydrogenation of ethy-
lene on pseudomorphic monolayers of Pd(111) on Re(0001)
[PdML/Re(0001)], PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111), and PdML/Au(111).
The computed (√3 × √3) di-σ binding energy for ethylene on
PdML/Re(00001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111), and PdML/Au(111) are
−10, −31, −62, and −78 kJ/mol, respectively. Hydrogen chemisorp-
tion follows trends very similar to the adsorption of ethylene with
calculated dissociative adsorption energies of +2, −6, −78, and
−83 kJ/mol, on the PdML/Re(00001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111), and
PdML/Au(111) surfaces, respectively. The elementary reactions of
ethylene hydrogenation to form a surface ethyl intermediate and
the dehydrogenation of ethylene to form a surface vinyl species
were examined as model reactions for metal-catalyzed coupling and
adsorbate bond-breaking reactions, respectively. Activation barri-
ers and energies of reaction were computed for these elementary
C–H bond-forming and C–H bond-breaking reactions over all the
aforementioned surfaces. Calculations indicate that the activation
barriers for the C–H bond breaking of surface-bound ethylene and
ethyl intermediates correlate linearly with the corresponding over-
all energies of reaction for different Pd overlayer surfaces, with a
slope of 0.65. The C–H bond activation barriers appear to be lower
on surfaces where the reaction is more exothermic, consistent with
the Evans–Polanyi postulate. Finally, we demonstrate that both the
trends in the adsorption energy of ethylene and the activation bar-
riers for hydrogenation/dehydrogenation of ethylene are correlated
to the intrinsic electronic properties of the bare metal surface. Using
concepts derived from frontier-orbital theory, we extend the simple
surface-activity model developed by Hammer and Nørskov (Surf.
Sci. 343, 211 (1995)) to predict the chemisorption and surface reac-
tivity of both ethylene and ethyl on different surfaces. The d-band
for the bare Pd overlayer is observed shifting closer to the Fermi
energy as the substrate metal is changed from a reactive metal such
as Re to a noble metal such as Au. Since C–H bond activation of
1 Author to whom correspondence should be addressed. Mailing
address: Rm. 117 A, Department of Chemical Engineering, School of En-
gineering and Applied Science, Thornton Hall, Mc Cormick Road, Char-
lottesville, VA 22903. Fax: (804) 982 2658.
ethyl and ethylene is primarily guided by electron-backdonation to
the antibonding σCH∗orbital, the activation barriers for C–H bond
breaking were found to be lower on surfaces where the d-band is
closer to the Fermi level. The converse is true for the microscopic
reverse, C–H bond formation reaction.
c
⃝2000 Academic Press
Key Words: ethylene; hydrogenation; dehydrogenation; bimetal-
lic overlayers; palladium; chemisorption; ethyl; vinyl; density func-
tional theory; Evans–Polanyi relation; LFER.
1. INTRODUCTION
The transformation of chemical species on a transition
metal surface is typically brought about by a series of ele-
mentary adsorbate bond-breaking and coupling steps. It is
well-known that transition metals to the left of the periodic
table form strong metal–adsorbate bonds due to vacancies
in the valence d-band. Adsorbate dissociation increases the
number of metal–adsorbate bonds and is therefore ther-
modynamically favored on these metals. For example, CO
readily dissociates on metals such as Mo and W that are
to the left of the periodic table, while it is molecularly ad-
sorbed on metals such as Pd, Pt, and Au, which are situated
at the right end of the transition metal series (1). While
bond-breaking activity is often required in metal catalysts,
complete decomposition of organic reactants can lead to
coking of the catalyst surface. The completion of a catalytic
cycle also requires desorption of the products. This desorp-
tion step is, in most cases, preceded by the recombination
of product fragments on the catalyst surface. Reactive met-
als such as Mo and Re, which form strong metal–adsorbate
bonds, are not as efﬁcient for such coupling reactions. A del-
icatebalancebetweenbond-scissionandfragment-coupling
activity is therefore required to complete the sequence of
elementary steps that comprise the overall catalytic cycle.
This generalized concept of catalytic reactivity was recog-
nized by Sabatier in the early half of the 20th century and
is commonly referred to as the Sabatier principle (2).
301
0021-9517/00 $35.00
Copyright c
⃝2000 by Academic Press
All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.
302
PALLASSANA AND NEUROCK
An optimal trade-off between adsorbate bond-breaking
andfragment-recombinationfunctionalityisoftenachieved
by using a bimetallic catalyst composed of reactive and no-
ble metals. Steam reforming of methane (Ni–Au), Fischer–
Tropsch synthesis (Ni–Co), aromatics production (Pt–Re),
and tetrahydrofuran synthesis (Pd–Re or Ru–Re) are just a
few examples of commercially relevant processes that em-
ploy bimetallic catalysts (3–6). Understanding the role of
bimetallic metal–metal interaction on chemical reactivity in
such systems is likely to aid the development of new cata-
lytic materials.
In recent years, surface scientists have successfully syn-
thesized and characterized well-deﬁned bimetallic overlay-
ers and alloyed surfaces under ultrahigh vacuum (UHV)
conditions (7–18). Advances in computational quantum-
chemical techniques and computer hardware are also
making it possible to model the surface reactivity of these
idealized bimetallic surfaces (19–24). Through theory and
experiment, it is now possible to probe the reactivity of a
well-structured bimetallic surface at the atomic level. In this
paper, we use density functional theory to examine the in-
trinsic electronic properties of bimetallic, pseudomorphic
overlayer surfaces and their effects on C–H bond-breaking
and C–H bond-making activity. To accomplish this, we con-
sider the reactions of ethylene on pseudomorphic monolay-
ers of Pd on close-packed surfaces of Re, Ru, Pd, and Au.
The coupling reaction of interest here is the surface reaction
of ethylene and atomic hydrogen to form a surface ethyl
intermediate. Metal-induced adsorbate bond-breaking is
examined by studying the dehydrogenation of ethylene to
form a surface vinyl species.
1.1. Ethylene Hydrogenation versus Decomposition
on Metal Surfaces
The adsorption, hydrogenation, and thermal decomposi-
tion of ethylene has been experimentally studied on a num-
ber of well-deﬁned single-crystal surfaces including Pd(100)
(25, 26), Pd(111) (27, 28), Pd(110) (29, 30), Fe(100) (31),
Pt(111) (32–34), Ag(111) (35), and Rh(111) (36). Depend-
ing upon the reaction conditions and the nature of the sur-
face, it is known that ethylene can either selectively hy-
drogenate to ethane or decompose to form species such
as ethylidyne and other CxHy intermediates (37). Under
some conditions and over certain metals, both hydrogena-
tion and dehydrogenation reactions occur with compara-
ble rates. While there is a wealth of experimental data on
the reactivity of chemisorbed ethylene on various different
metal surfaces, a fundamental understanding of how the
intrinsic properties of the surface control oleﬁn hydrogena-
tion versus dehydrogenation activity is still premature. In
this paper, we begin to address this issue by analyzing the
changes in the activation barrier for hydrogenation and de-
hydrogenation of ethylene due to changes in the electronic
properties of the metal surface.
The detailed reaction pathways for ethylene decomposi-
tion on a metal surface are quite complex (34–36, 38, 39),
and a comprehensive analysis of all pathways is beyond the
scope of this work. We consider here the initial elementary
activation steps in the hydrogenation and dehydrogenation
of ethylene. The ﬁrst involves the hydrogenation of ethy-
lene to form surface-bound ethyl. The second elementary
reaction is the dehydrogenation of ethylene to form vinyl.
These are used herein, as model reactions to characterize
the hydrogenation versus dehydrogenation activity of the
metal surface.
1.2. Hydrogenation of Ethylene to Surface
Ethyl on Pd(111)
The hydrogenation of ethylene has been studied exten-
sively on different single-crystal surfaces as a model for
oleﬁn hydrogenation (29, 32, 40, 41). Detailed experiments
have conﬁrmed that the reaction proceeds via the Horiuti–
Polanyi mechanism with the formation of an ethyl surface
intermediate (42–44). More recent sum frequency gener-
ation (SFG) experiments on Pt(111) indicate that while
the surface is primarily covered with di-σ-bound ethylene,
the π-bound ethylene species may be more important for
hydrogenation activity (32). On palladium, however, it is
not known whether hydrogenation of the π or di-σ species
dominates the surface. In an early study for ethylene hy-
drogenation over Pd(111) we found that repulsive inter-
actions between π-bound ethylene and atomic hydrogen
force ethylene into the di-σ-bound mode, at low surface
coverages (45–47). Hydrogenation of the di-σ-bound ethy-
lene appeared to be the only stable reaction pathway at low
surface coverage. More recently, however, we found that,
at higher surface coverages, hydrogenation of the π-bound
ethylene has a lower activation barrier and may be more
preferable (45–47). In this work, we uncouple the intrinsic
reactivity from coverage effects and examine the hydro-
genation of the di-σ ethylene, which is the more favorable
intermediate at low coverage.
The DFT-calculated reaction pathway for the hydrogena-
tion of ethylene to ethyl on Pd(111) is shown in Fig. 1
(45, 46). The hydrogenation of ethylene to ethyl involves
the insertion of a surface atomic hydrogen into the Pd–C
bond to form a new C–H bond. The mechanism is more
easily analyzed by examining the reverse step, which from
microscopic reversibility is the β-hydride elimination reac-
tion. The electronic interactions involved in the C–H bond
activation of the ethyl intermediate on Pd(111) are illus-
trated in Fig. 2. Figure 2 (see lowermost frame) shows the
density of states projected to the β-carbon 2p and hydrogen
1s states of ethyl in vacuum. The states located below and
above the Fermi energy at −6.0 and +5.0 eV correspond to
the σ CH (bonding) and σ ∗
CH (antibonding) orbitals, respec-
tively. For ethyl on Pd(111), these orbitals do not interact
with the metal. The β-hydride elimination step involves an
ETHYLENE HYDROGENATION/DEHYDROGENATION ON Pd OVERLAYERS
303
FIG. 1.
DFT-computed reaction pathway for ethylene hydrogenation
to a surface ethyl species on Pd(111). (a) Di-σ-bound ethylene and hydro-
gen on Pd(111); (b) transition state; (c) ethyl on Pd(111).
agostic stretch of the C–H bond. As the C–H bond is elon-
gated, the overlap between the carbon (sp3 hybrid orbital)
and H (1s orbital) is reduced. Consequently, the energy gap
between the σ CH and σCH∗states is reduced, and these or-
bitalsshiftclosertotheFermienergy.Atthetransitionstate,
the σ CH and σCH∗orbitals begin to interact with the valence
s-, p-, and d-states of the metal, resulting in electron dona-
tion and backdonation interaction states (as is seen in the
second panel of Fig. 2). This interaction is stronger for the
σ ∗
CH state with the metal d-band, as compared to that for the
σ CH state. In other words, the C–H bond activation of ethyl
is primarily guided by the backdonation of electrons from
the metal into the antibonding σCH∗state of ethyl (48). The
DFT-computed C–H bond distance at the transition state
geometry for this reaction is 1.7 ˚
A (refer to Fig. 1). The tran-
sition state is late along the reaction coordinate for ethyl
C–H bond activation. From Fig. 1, there appears to be a
signiﬁcant level of Pd–H and Pd–C bond formation at the
transition state. These results are consistent with previously
reported theoretical results for the C–H bond activation of
species such as acetate on Pd(111) and methane and ethyl
on Ni (49–53).
1.3. Dehydrogenation of Ethylene to Vinyl on Pd(111)
The dehydrogenation of ethylene to vinyl is speculated
to be a single elementary step (25), although the vinyl sp-
ecies has never actually been identiﬁed on the Pd(111) and
Pt(111) surfaces (27, 38). This may be because species such
FIG. 2.
Frontier orbital interactions for C–H bond activation of ethyl
on Pd(111). Shaded areas indicate density of states (DOS) projected to
carbon2pandhydrogen1sstatesoftheβ C–Hbond.Solidlinecorresponds
to DOS projected to Pd d-band for the adsorbate–metal system. The bare
surface Pd d-band (dotted line) is shown for comparison.
304
PALLASSANA AND NEUROCK
FIG. 3.
DFT-computed reaction pathway for ethylene dehydrogena-
tion to a surface vinyl species on Pd(111). (a) Di-σ-bound ethylene on
Pd(111); (b) transition state; (c) η1η2-bound vinyl and 3-fold hydrogen on
Pd(111).
as ethylidyne and ethylidene are much more stable than
vinylonthe(111)hexagonalfacets.Vinylhasbeenobserved
to be stable, however, on the Pd(100) surfaces (25). It has
been speculated that di-σ-bound ethylene is the reactive
intermediate for vinyl formation (25, 40).
Figure 3 shows the reaction pathway for the dehydro-
genation of ethylene to vinyl on a Pd(111) surface, as de-
termined using DFT calculations. The reaction coordinate
for C–H bond breaking of ethylene bears close semblance
to that of ethyl β-hydride elimination. Similar to ethyl C-H
bond activation, the dehydrogenation of ethylene involves
the interaction of the σ CH and σCH∗orbitals of ethylene
with the metal. Following an agostic stretch of the C–H
bond, electron backdonation into the anti-bonding σ ∗or-
bital causes weakening of the C–H bond, ultimately break-
ingit.C–Hbondscissioninthiscasealsooccursoverasingle
surface metal atom. Remarkably, the C–H bond distance
(1.75 ˚
A) at the transition state is nearly the same as that
found for ethyl C–H bond activation. The transition state
for this reaction is situated late along the reaction coordi-
nate for ethylene dehydrogenation. The primary difference
between ethylene and ethyl C–H bond activation involves
the concerted torsion of the C=
=C–Pd–Pd dihedral angle,
from 0◦to 30◦, during the C–H bond breaking of ethylene.
This torsion is necessary because the resulting vinyl species
is most favorably bound in the η1η2 mode (see lowermost
panel in Fig. 3).
2. COMPUTATIONAL DETAILS
Nonlocal gradient-corrected, density functional calcula-
tions were used to determine all the structural and ener-
getic results discussed in this paper. All calculations were
performed using a full, periodic slab geometry to repre-
sent the metal surface. In cluster calculations, the molec-
ular orbitals are generally localized to a ﬁnite region in
three-dimensional space. They are therefore approximated
by a linear combination of atom-centered Gaussian- or
Slater-type functions, which constitute the atomic orbital
basis set. In the periodic slab, the metal eigenstates close
to the Fermi level are best described by Bloch functions
(54, 55). The valence eigenstates are therefore approxi-
mated by a linear combination of a plane wave basis set
with a maximum kinetic energy of 40 Ry (56). For our cal-
culations, it was ensured in a few cases that the total en-
ergy of the system did not change by increasing the cutoff
energy beyond 40 Ry. The core orbitals are described by
frozen-core, scalar-relativistic, norm-conserving pseudopo-
tentials(57).Theexchange-correlationpotentialusedinthe
local density approximation is of the functional form pro-
posed by Vosko, Wilk, and Nusair (58). Nonlocal contribu-
tions to the exchange-correlation energy were incorporated
self-consistently while the Kohn–Sham equations were
solved (59, 60), using the Perdew–Wang (PW91) functional
(61).
For ethylene on Pd(111), a (√3 × √3) unit cell was found
to provide an optimal balance to minimize the size of the
unit cell without encountering strong adsorbate–adsorbate
repulsive interactions (50). Eighteen Chadi–Cohen special
k-points were found to be adequate for sampling the ﬁrst
Brillouin zone corresponding to this (√3 × √3) super cell
in real space (62). Hydrogen adsorption was examined for
a (1 × 1) unit cell. Fifty-four Chadi–Cohen special k-points
were found to be adequate for the ﬁrst Brillouin zone sam-
pling in this case (62).
ETHYLENE HYDROGENATION/DEHYDROGENATION ON Pd OVERLAYERS
305
The description of wavefunctions, in the direction per-
pendicular to the slab by a ﬁnite number of plane waves,
requires the periodic repetition of the slabs normal to the
surface. The slab periodicity perpendicular to the surface
was chosen appropriately to eliminate interactions between
adjacent slabs. A vacuum region of thickness corresponding
to ﬁve metal layers was found to be adequate for this pur-
pose. Electronic occupations were Fermi-distributed with
an electronic kBT = 0.1 eV to stabilize the electronic con-
vergence scheme, but all ﬁnal total energies were extrapo-
lated back to 0 K (63). Since the metal surfaces examined
here are nonmagnetic in the bulk, all slab calculations were
performed spin-unpolarized. Calculations were performed
using the DACAPO program developed at the Technical
University of Denmark (64, 65).
Transition states for C–H bond-breaking of ethyl and
ethylene were determined using reaction coordinate cal-
culations on a cluster model of the Pd(111) surface (45,
46). For the C–H bond-breaking reactions, the principal
component to the reaction coordinate is along the C–H
bond stretch. The C–H bond stretch was, therefore, cho-
sen as a starting reaction coordinate to locate the transi-
tion state. The ﬁrst step in our transition state search pro-
cedure was to map out a series of structures, having C–
H bond distances intermediate to the reactant and prod-
uct. At each of these structures, the geometry was partially
optimized by minimizing the energy of the system along
all internal modes except the C–H bond distance, which
was kept constrained during the optimization procedure.
This constrained geometry optimization scheme provided
a series of structures and energies along the chosen trial
reaction coordinate. The point of maximum energy along
the trial coordinate provided a better guess for the tran-
sition state geometry. Detailed transition state search al-
gorithms were employed to reﬁne the transition state ge-
ometry, such that the energy gradients along all internal
modes were close to zero. Vibrational frequencies were
computed at the resulting transition state structure, to ver-
ify the existence of a negative eigenmode, corresponding
to the reaction coordinate. Transition states for ethyl and
ethylene C–H bond breaking were re-optimized for all the
pseudomorphic, Pd(111) overlayer slabs, using the cluster-
optimized transition state as an initial guess structure. The
calculation of forces in the periodic slab geometry, using
the cluster-optimized transition state as a trial structure, in-
dicated that the forces on the atoms were very small in all
directions, except in the direction perpendicular to the slab.
The transition state geometry was therefore re-optimized
to minimize the forces along this direction. At the ﬁnal slab-
optimized transition state structure, the forces in all direc-
tions were within the convergence threshold of 0.2 eV/ ˚
A.
A comparison of the cluster-optimized geometries with the
periodic slab structures showed very little differences for
the adsorbate C–C and C–H bond distances. The metal–C
and metal–H bond distances in the slab calculations, how-
FIG. 4.
Pseudomorphic Pd overlayers examined in this study. The
lightly shaded elements on the periodic table indicate the substrate metals
studied in this paper.
ever, were observed to be consistently shorter (∼0.1 ˚
A)
than the corresponding distances in the cluster optimized
geometry. This is most likely because of the different pseu-
dopotentials and basis functions used in the cluster and slab
calculations.
The surfaces examined in this study are depicted in Fig. 4.
Each slab is composed of three metal layers, the lower two
belonging to the substrate metal (Re, Ru, Pd, or Au) and
the top layer being Pd in all cases. Previously, we showed
that a three-layer slab model is adequate to predict reason-
able adsorption energetics for adsorbates such as ethylene
and hydrogen (23, 50). The substrate metals were chosen so
as to span a set of elements across the periodic table, which
have a different number of valence d-electrons. The choice
of surfaces was also motivated by the fact that these surfaces
have been studied experimentally under UHV conditions
(7, 9, 10, 27, 66, 67). The surfaces examined are the close-
packed surfaces for the substrate metal. For hcp metals Re
and Ru, the (0001) plane has the highest surface atom den-
sity. Similarly, for fcc elements Pd and Au, the (111) facet is
most closely packed. The Pd overlayer was initially placed
at the idealized pseudomorphic position corresponding to
the substrate and was subsequently optimized. It has been
reported that the growth of the Pd overlayer, on all of the
substrates analyzed here, occurs in a layer-by-layer fashion
described by the Frank–van der Merwe mode (7, 10, 67).
Surfaces with a pseudomorphic monolayer of Pd on sub-
strates such as Re and Ru are observed to be thermally sta-
ble at high temperatures, with minimal alloying of the sur-
face and substrate layers (7). PdML/Au(111), on the other
hand, is stable only at very low temperatures (9, 10). At
300K,signiﬁcantintermixingofthePdoverlayerandtheAu
substrate is observed (9, 10). In this study, we only examine
the pseudomorphic overlayers. The metal–metal distance
within each layer was set to the experimental interatomic
distance for the substrate metal. For Re, Ru, Pd, and Au,
the interatomic distances are 2.76, 2.71, 2.75, and 2.88 ˚
A,
306
PALLASSANA AND NEUROCK
respectively (54). All structural variables for the adsorbate
and the slab were optimized, with the exception of the low-
ermost layer of the slab, which was intentionally ﬁxed to
the bulk lattice parameter.
3. RESULTS
3.1. Ethylene and Hydrogen Chemisorption
The (√3 × √3) periodic adsorption of ethylene was ex-
amined on the PdML/Re(0001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111),
and PdML/Au(111) surfaces using DFT-GGA slab calcu-
lations. Table 1 summarizes the DFT-optimized geomet-
ric parameters and binding energies for ethylene on all
the surfaces. The adsorption of ethylene is least favorable
on PdML/Re(0001) with a very weak binding energy of
−10 kJ/mol. The computed adsorption energy for ethylene
on PdML/Ru(0001) is −31 kJ/mol, which is slightly higher
than that on PdML/Re(0001). Although we have not been
able to ﬁnd experimental estimates for ethylene adsorp-
tion on these surfaces, Koel and co-workers have demon-
strated experimentally that ethylene binds more weakly
to Pd monolayers on the Mo(100) surface as compared
to Pd(111) (68). It is also well established that molec-
ular adsorbates, such as CO, bind more weakly on the
bimetallic PdML/Re(0001) and PdML/Ru(0001) surfaces in
comparison to monometallic Pd(111) (7, 8, 66). Campbell
et al. report that the CO desorption temperatures from the
PdML/Re(0001) and PdML/Ru(0001) surfaces are 110 and
125 K, respectively, lower than that from the monometal-
lic Pd(111) surface (7). XPS measurements indicate that
there is a shift in the energy of the Pd (3d5/2) electron to
a higher binding energy due to the presence of the Re
or Ru bulk (7, 8, 66). Hammer and Nørskov theoretically
demonstrate a corresponding shift in the valence d-band
for these pseudomorphic Pd monolayers (21, 69). This shift
to a higher electron binding energy indicates that there
are strong Pd–Re and Pd–Ru interactions, resulting in the
TABLE 1
Geometric Parameters and Energies for Ethylene and Hydrogen Chemisorption on Pd(111)
and Pseudomorphic Monolayer of Pd(111) on Re(0001), Ru(0001), and Au(111)
Lateral
Binding
interaction
1Eads C2H4
Pd–C
C=
=C
energy (H)
1Eads H2
Pd–H
energy
Surface
(kJ/mol)a
( ˚
A)
( ˚
A)
(kJ/mol)
(kJ/mol)b
( ˚
A)
(kJ/mol)c
PdML/Re(0001)
−10
2.30
1.39
−217
+2
1.85
+12
PdML/Ru(0001)
−31
2.25
1.41
−221
−6
1.80
+18
Pd(111)
−62
2.19
1.45
−257
−78
1.80
+18
PdML/Au(111)
−78
2.14
1.45
−260
−83
1.83
+15
a Binding energy of ethylene on bare metal surface for (√3 × √3) adsorption.
b Energy for dissociative adsorption of H2. Coverage = 100% fcc sites.
c Based on ethylene and hydrogen (√3 × √3) coadsorption. Lateral interaction energy is per C2H4–H pair.
weakening of the adsorbate interaction energy with the Pd
overlayer. A detailed analysis of the electronic factors de-
termining the changes in adsorption energies is presented in
Section 4.2.
In contrast to these surfaces, the adsorption of ethylene
on Pd(111) is signiﬁcantly stronger, with a binding strength
of −62 kJ/mol. The DFT-calculated result is in good agree-
ment with previously computed theoretical values (−60
and −55 kJ/mol) (70, 71) and experimental TPD estimates
(−59 kJ/mol) (27, 72). Amongst all the surfaces examined
in this paper, the adsorption of ethylene is strongest on the
bimetallic PdML/Au(111) surface, with a binding energy of
−78 kJ/mol. Koel and co-workers have studied the adsorp-
tion of CO on PdML/Au(111) and have determined that the
binding energy of CO on the PdML/Au(111) is comparable
to that on Pd(111) (9). At 300 K, however, the Pd over-
layer and the Au substrate begin to intermix, forming sur-
face alloys and rendering the experimental analysis difﬁcult
(9, 10).
Table 1 tabulates the optimized structural parameters im-
portant in ethylene di-σ chemisorption on each of the metal
surfaces. Although the direct interaction of ethylene is with
thePdoverlayerinallcases,therearenoticeabledifferences
in the Pd–carbon (Pd–C) bond distances for the different
surfaces. The Pd–C bond distances appear to correlate here
with the metal adsorbate bond strengths. For instance, the
Pd–C bond distance is shortest (2.14 ˚
A) on PdML/Au(111),
where ethylene is most strongly bound. The same bond
is about 0.15
˚
A longer on PdML/Re(0001), which ex-
hibits the weakest interaction with ethylene. The calculated
C–C bond distance for vapor-phase ethylene and ethane
are 1.34 and 1.54 ˚
A, respectively. The C=
=C bond length
for di-σ-bonded ethylene is observed to increase on sur-
faces that exhibit stronger adsorption energies (Table 1).
This is commensurate with a decreasing C=
=C bond order
due to rehybridization of the valence orbitals on carbon
from sp2 to sp3 during di-σ adsorption. The longer C–C
bond distance on PdML/Au(111) may also be partly due
ETHYLENE HYDROGENATION/DEHYDROGENATION ON Pd OVERLAYERS
307
to the increased lattice Pd–Pd distance for this surface
(2.88 ˚
A).
The binding of atomic hydrogen was also examined on
all the surfaces of interest in this paper. Atomic hydrogen
prefers the 3-fold fcc site on Pd(111) (23, 73–75). The ad-
sorption of hydrogen was studied at 100% coverage of the
3-fold fcc sites. The lateral interactions between adsorbed
hydrogen atoms on Pd are rather weak. At 100% coverage
of H on Pd(111) the repulsive interactions were found to be
within 20 kJ/mol and were predominantly due to through-
space interactions between the hydrogen atoms (23, 74).
The through-space adsorbate–adsorbate interactions are
less dependent on the nature of the surface and are, there-
fore, very easy to correct, to calculate the low-coverage
adsorption energies. The calculated trends in the binding
energy at 100% coverage, reported here, are also expected
to be valid for a lower surface coverage of hydrogen.
The DFT-calculated binding energy of atomic hydrogen
on PdML/Re(0001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111), and PdML/
Au(111) are −217, −221, −257, and −260 kJ/mol, respec-
tively. Accounting for the H–H bond dissociation energy
in the vapor phase (+436 kJ/mol) (76), the energy of dis-
sociative adsorption of H2 on the PdML/Re(0001), PdML/
Ru(0001), Pd(111), and PdML/Au(111) surfaces are esti-
mated to be +2, −6, −78, and −83 kJ/mol, respectively.
The DFT-computed adsorption energy for hydrogen on
Pd(111) is in good agreement with previously reported the-
oretical (73, 75, 77) and experimental (78) values. It is in-
teresting to note that the dissociative adsorption of H2 on
PdML/Re(0001) and PdML/Ru(0001) is almost thermoneu-
tral. Hammer and Nørskov have shown that the activation
barriers for dissociative chemisorption of H2 on surfaces ap-
pear to correlate with the overall chemisorption energies
(69, 79, 80). For surfaces such as Cu(111), where H2 dis-
sociative chemisorption is weakly exothermic, the adsorp-
tion process is activated with a barrier of about 50 kJ/mol
(79, 80). Based on this observation, it is likely that the ad-
sorption of H2 is also activated on the PdML/Re(0001) and
PdML/Ru(0001) surfaces.
DFT calculations indicate that the dissociative adsorp-
tion of H2 on the Pd(111) and PdML/Au(111) surfaces are
exothermic by −78 and −83 kJ/mol, respectively. Disso-
ciative hydrogen chemisorption is known to be nonacti-
vated on Pd(111) (79). Since atomic hydrogen is slightly
more strongly bound to PdML/Au(111), it is unlikely to
have a barrier on this surface. Table 1 shows the optimized
metal–hydrogen (M–H) bond distance for the binding of
a single hydrogen atom to the 3-fold fcc site. The M–H
bond distance is roughly 1.8 ˚
A for all the surfaces stud-
ied here. It is slightly longer on the PdML/Re(0001) surface,
which is consistent with the weaker interaction of hydro-
gen on this surface. The slightly longer M–H distance on
the PdML/Au(111) surface is most likely due to the larger
lattice parameter for this surface (2.88 ˚
A) as compared to
that of Pd(111) (2.75 ˚
A). It is important to note that the
trends in ethylene adsorption energies and atomic hydro-
gen chemisorption energies on all the surfaces examined in
this paper are very similar. Both ethylene and hydrogen are
very strongly bound on the PdML/Au(111) surface and most
weakly bound on the PdML/Re(0001) surface.
Thehydrogenationofethylenetoasurfaceethylinterme-
diate requires the coadsorption of ethylene and hydrogen
at adjacent sites, by the sharing of surface metal atoms. Lat-
eral interactions between the two adsorbates are likely to
inﬂuence the adsorption energies of both species. To esti-
mate the lateral interaction energies between C2H4 and H,
the coadsorption of these two species was examined for a
(√3 × √3) coverage on all the surfaces. For a (√3 × √3)
structure, each di-σ-bound ethylene species has two near-
est neighbor hydrogen atoms. The lateral interaction en-
ergy per ethylene–hydrogen pair was therefore estimated
as half the difference in the adsorption energy of ethylene
on the surface, with and without preadsorbed hydrogen.
The lateral interaction energies thus calculated are listed
in Table 1. It appears that the interaction energies between
ethyleneandhydrogenare12–18kJ/molrepulsiveandshow
relatively weak dependence on the nature of the substrate.
3.2. Hydrogenation of Di-σ-Bound Ethylene to Ethyl
In section 1.2 we described the reaction pathway for the
hydrogenation of ethylene from the di-σ-adsorbed mode.
In this section, the reaction energetics for the hydrogena-
tion of ethylene to ethyl on the various pseudomorphic
PdML/M(111) (M = Re, Ru, Pd, and Au) surfaces are
discussed. Table 2 summarizes the activation barrier and
energy of reaction for the hydrogenation of ethylene to
ethyl on the Pd overlayer with different substrates. DFT
calculations indicate that the hydrogenation of ethylene
to ethyl is almost thermoneutral on the Pd(111) surface.
The same reaction is exothermic by −48 kJ/mol on the
PdML/Re(0001) surface and exothermic by −34 kJ/mol on
the PdML/Ru(0001) surface. Interestingly, the hydrogena-
tion reaction is endothermic on the PdML/Au(111) surface
with an energy of reaction of +32 kJ/mol.
In Fig. 5, we plotted the DFT-computed binding energy of
atomic hydrogen, ethylene, and surface ethyl on the differ-
ent surfaces examined here. It is interesting to observe that
the binding energies of all three species show very similar
trends. They are all strongly bound on the PdML/Au(111)
surface and weakly adsorbed on the PdML/Re(0001) sur-
face. The hydrogenation reaction involves the coupling of
surface-bound ethylene and hydrogen to form a surface
ethyl intermediate. It follows that the differences in the
overall reaction energies for the hydrogenation of ethylene
to surface ethyl are, therefore, likely to follow the changes
in the adsorption energy of ethylene, on the various pseu-
domorphic overlayers.
308
PALLASSANA AND NEUROCK
TABLE 2
Activation Barriers and Energy of Reaction for Ethylene Hydrogenation to Ethyl on Pd(111) and Pseudomorphic
Monolayers of Pd(111) on Re(0001), Ru(0001), and Au(111) (C2H∗
4 + H∗⇄
kf
kr C2H∗
5 + ∗)
Geometric parameters
at transition state
1Er
act (kJ/mol)
1Erxn (kJ/mol)
1Ef
act (kJ/mol)
β-hydride
C–H
Pd–H
Pd–C
Surface
hydrogenation
hydrogenation
elimination
( ˚
A)
( ˚
A)
( ˚
A)
PdML/Re(0001)
−48
+78
+126
1.74
1.59
2.44
PdML/Ru(0001)
−34
+77
+111
1.72
1.59
2.44
Pd(111)
0
+82
+82
1.69
1.56
2.31
PdML/Au(111)
+32
+104
+72
1.66
1.55
2.33
Activation barriers for hydrogenation were determined
by optimizing the reactant, transition state, and products for
ethylene hydrogenation individually on each of the surfaces
and computing the difference in the total energy between
the transition state and the reactant state. The activation
barriers for the microscopic reverse reaction of β-hydride
elimination of the surface ethyl intermediate are also listed
in Table 2.
The geometric parameters along the reaction coordinate
for ethylene hydrogenation to ethyl were observed to be
fairly similar for the different pseudomorphic Pd/M(111)
surfaces (Table 2). The C–H bond distances at the transi-
tion state are between 1.66 and 1.74 ˚
A over the different Pd
pseudomorphic overlayers. The C–Pd and H–Pd bond dis-
tances, however, are slightly longer on the PdML/Re(0001)
and PdML/Ru(0001) overlayers as compared to those on
Pd(111), consistent with the weaker interaction of the
fragments with the bimetallic PdML/Re(0001) and PdML/
Ru(0001) surfaces. The activation barriers and overall reac-
tion energies for both ethylene hydrogenation and ethylde-
hydrogenation are shown in Table 2. The activation barri-
ers for ethylene hydrogenation on PdML/Re(0001), PdML/
Ru(0001), and Pd(111) are fairly similar (ca. 80 kJ/mol).
FIG. 5.
DFT-computed binding energies of ethylene (r), ethyl (m),
and atomic hydrogen (j) on PdML/Re(0001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111),
and PdML/Au(111) surfaces.
The activation barrier for hydrogenation is about 20 kJ/mol
higher on the PdML/Au(111) surface. The reverse step, i.e.,
ethyl C–H bond activation, however, shows a more system-
atic trend in the activation energy. This barrier is highest on
the PdML/Re(0001) surface (ca. +126 kJ/mol) and lowest
on the PdML/Au(111) surface (ca. +72 kJ/mol). The DFT-
computed activation barrier for C–H bond activation of
ethyl to ethylene on Pd(111) (+82 kJ/mol) is slightly higher
than the experimental estimate for ethyl C–H bond activa-
tion on Pd(100) (40–62 kJ/mol) (40). The barrier measured
onthePd(100)surfaceismostlikelylowerbecauseitismore
coordinatively unsaturated than the close-packed Pd(111)
surface.
The structural features related to the reaction pathway
are similar on the different pseudomorphic overlayers that
were examined. This is an ideal situation for the develop-
ment of structure–reactivity relationships. The changes in
surface reactivity may be correlated either to changes in
the overall thermodynamics for the reaction, such as the
development of the Evans–Polanyi relationship, and/or to
changes in the metal surface electronic structure. We exam-
ine both types of relationships. We ﬁrst examine the results
along the lines of energy differences. In the analysis sec-
tion, we probe the correlation of activation energies with
the electronic structure of the metal surface.
Linear free energy relationships.
Based on empirical ob-
servation, Evans and Polanyi postulated that the activation
energies for a series of reactions with structurally similar
reactants are likely to correlate to the overall energies of
reaction (81). This postulate is analogous to the Brønsted
relation and is one of a series of linear free energy rela-
tionships (LFER) that correlate reaction rate constants to
overall free energies of reaction. Another well-known con-
cept in organic chemistry relates to the Hammond postu-
late, which states that for highly exothermic reactions the
transition state structure and energy are similar to those of
the reactant state (82). Conversely, for endothermic reac-
tions, the transition state geometry and energy should be
more product-like. While there is no rigorous foundation
ETHYLENE HYDROGENATION/DEHYDROGENATION ON Pd OVERLAYERS
309
SCHEME 1
in theory, the Hammond postulate has held in the analysis
of a fair number of experimental systems. The Hammond
postulate suggests that, for reactions where the transition
state is more product-like, the forward activation barrier
should correlate to the overall forward energy of reaction.
Analogously, for reactions with an early transition state, the
activation barrier for the reverse reaction should correlate
with the overall energy. This is illustrated in Scheme 1.
The results of plotting the forward activation barrier (for
C–H bond formation) and the reverse activation barrier
(for β-hydride elimination) as a function of the overall en-
ergy for hydrogenation of ethylene, on different metal sur-
faces, are shown in Figs. 6a and 6b, respectively. Figures 6a
and 6b show that there is a near linear dependence between
the activation barrier and the overall energy of reaction,
consistent with expectations based on the Evans–Polanyi
postulate. The activation barrier for β-hydride elimination
of surface ethyl to ethylene is lower on surfaces where the
overall energy for β-hydride elimination is more exother-
mic. Similarly, the activation barrier for ethylene hydro-
genation to ethyl is lower on the surfaces, where the hy-
drogenation reaction is more exothermic. The slope for the
activation barrier as a function of the overall energy for
β-hydride elimination of ethyl is 0.65, which is within the
range (0 < slope < 1) expected on the basis of the Evans–
Polanyi postulate (83).
From Fig. 6, it is observed that the linear relationship
between the activation barrier and the overall reaction en-
ergy is slightly better for β-hydride elimination as opposed
to ethylene hydrogenation. This is rationalized on the ba-
sis of the reaction pathway for ethyl β-hydride elimination
(see Fig. 1). The transition state (TS) is late along the re-
action coordinate for β-hydride elimination of ethyl. The
C–H bond distance of 1.7 ˚
A at the transition state is signiﬁ-
cantly longer than that in the reactant ethyl species (1.1 ˚
A)
(Fig. 1). In other words, the transition state for β-hydride
elimination of ethyl is structurally more product-like than
reactant-like. Therefore, the stabilization of the transition
state for β-hydride elimination on the different surfaces
should be analogous to that of the product state. One would
therefore expect a stronger dependence of the activation
barrier for β-hydride elimination on the reaction energy, as
compared to the activation barrier for C–H bond formation
on the reaction energy. Our results are consistent with this
expectation.
Figure 7 shows the activation barrier for ethylene hydro-
genation and ethyl β C–H bond activation as a function
of the ethylene adsorption energy on the surface. Earlier,
we indicated that the trends in the overall energy for ethy-
lene hydrogenation are very similar to those of ethylene
adsorption. Figure 7 suggests that ethylene hydrogenation
is slightly more favorable on surfaces where both ethylene
and hydrogen are relatively weakly bound. The correlation
of the activation barrier with the energy of adsorption of
ethylene, however, is better for the reverse reaction of C–H
bond breaking. The reverse C–H bond-breaking reaction
appears to be more facile on surfaces where the dissociation
FIG. 6.
Evans–Polanyi relationship for ethylene hydrogenation over
pseudomorphic monolayers of Pd on Re, Ru, Pd, and Au. (a) DFT-GGA-
calculated activation barrier for ethylene C–H bond formation versus
1Erxn for hydrogenation; (b) DFT-GGA- calculated activation barrier for
ethyl C–H bond breaking versus 1Erxn for hydrogenation.
310
PALLASSANA AND NEUROCK
FIG. 7.
DFT-calculated activation barrier for (a) ethylene hydrogena-
tion and (b) ethyl C–H bond breaking, as a function of ethylene adsorption
energy on pseudomorphic Pd overlayers.
products, i.e., ethylene and hydrogen, are more strongly
bound. This is not an unexpected result. Hydrogenation of
ethylene to ethyl involves the breaking of metal–adsorbate
bonds and the formation of adsorbate–adsorbate bonds.
One would therefore expect it to be easier to combine
fragments on surfaces that have relatively weaker metal–
adsorbate bond strengths. The DFT results appear to con-
form to this expectation, based on the Sabatier principle.
3.3. Dehydrogenation of Di-σ-Bound Ethylene to Vinyl
To study the role of the metal in adsorbate bond break-
ing, the dehydrogenation of di-σ-bound ethylene to vinyl
was examined for all the surfaces of interest in this paper.
The DFT-computed reaction pathway for the formation of
vinyl from ethylene was discussed in section 1.3. The DFT-
optimized structures for the reactant, transition state, and
product on Pd(111) are depicted in Fig. 3. The energetics for
C–H bond activation of ethylene to vinyl on the different
surfaces are tabulated in Table 3. The dehydrogenation of
ethylene to vinyl at (√3 × √3) coverage is at least 70 kJ/mol
endothermic for all the Pd-based surfaces studied here.
The reaction is most endothermic on the PdML/Re(0001)
surface with a 1Erxn of +139 kJ/mol. In comparison, the
TABLE 3
Activation Barriers and Energy of Reaction for Ethylene
Dehydrogenation to Vinyl on Pd(111) and Pseudomorphic
Monolayers of Pd(111) on Re(0001), Ru(0001), and Au(111)
(C2H∗
4 + ∗⇄
kf
kr C2H∗
3 + H∗)
1Er
act (kJ/mol)
1Erxn (kJ/mol)
1Ef
act (kJ/mol)
vinyl
Surface
dehydrogenation
dehydrogenation
hydrogenation
PdML/Re(0001)
+139
+188
+49
PdML/Ru(0001)
+120
+172
+51
Pd(111)
+73
+151
+78
PdML/Au(111)
+77
+143
+66
reaction is slightly more favorable on the Pd(111) and
PdML/Au(111) surfaces that have energies of reaction of
+73and+77kJ/mol,respectively.Theenergyofreactionon
the PdML/Ru(0001) surface is +120 kJ/mol, which is inter-
mediate to that on the Pd(111) and PdML/Re(0001) surfaces.
The binding energies of atomic hydrogen, vinyl, and
ethylene for the different pseudomorphic Pd overlayers
are shown in Fig. 8. It is observed that the binding en-
ergy of all intermediates are stronger as we move from the
PdML/Re(0001) surface toward the PdML/Au(111) surface.
The graph also shows that there is a somewhat stronger
variation in the vinyl binding energy as compared to the
ethylene and hydrogen binding energies. One would there-
fore expect the overall reaction energy for vinyl formation
to follow the changes in the vinyl binding energy.
Table 3 shows the DFT-computed forward and reverse
activation barriers for ethylene C–H bond activation to
vinyl. The results indicate that vinyl formation has an acti-
vation energy of +151 kJ/mol on the Pd(111) surface. The
reaction is slightly favored on the PdML/Au(111) surface,
where the barrier is +143 kJ/mol. The dehydrogenation re-
action has relatively higher activation barriers of +172 and
+188 kJ/mol on the PdML/Ru(0001) and PdML/Re(0001)
FIG. 8.
DFT-computed binding energies of ethylene (r), vinyl (m),
and atomic hydrogen (j) on PdML/Re(0001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111),
and PdML/Au(111) surfaces.
ETHYLENE HYDROGENATION/DEHYDROGENATION ON Pd OVERLAYERS
311
surfaces, respectively. Experimental estimates of the ac-
tivation barrier for vinyl formation are not available for
the above-mentioned surfaces. However, Zaera and co-
workers report that vinyl hydrogenation to ethylene occurs
at about 200 K on Pt(111) (38). Based on this observation,
the activation barrier for vinyl hydrogenation on Pt(111) is
estimated to be about 40–50 kJ/mol. Our calculated value
for vinyl hydrogenation on Pd(111) is 70 kJ/mol, which is
about 20 kJ/mol higher than the estimated experimental
activation energy on Pt(111).
Similar to the analysis for ethylene hydrogenation, the
activation barriers for vinyl hydrogenation and ethylene
C–H bond breaking are plotted as a function of the overall
energy of reaction for ethylene dehydrogenation (Figs. 9a
and 9b). This graph provides a test of the Evans–Polanyi
postulate for this particular step. Again, we ﬁnd that the
activation barrier for C–H bond-breaking decreases as the
energy of reaction for C–H bond activation becomes less
endothermic. The activation barrier for the reverse step,
vinyl hydrogenation to ethylene, also decreases as the reac-
tion energy for hydrogenation becomes more exothermic.
FIG. 9.
Evans–Polanyi relationship for ethylene dehydrogenation
over pseudomorphic monolayers of Pd on Re, Ru, Pd, and Au. (a)
DFT-GGA calculated activation barrier for vinyl C–H bond formation
versus 1Erxn for dehydrogenation; (b) DFT-GGA-calculated activation
barrier for ethylene C–H bond breaking versus 1Erxn for dehydrogena-
tion.
FIG. 10.
DFT-calculated activation barrier for (a) vinyl hydrogena-
tion and (b) ethylene C–H bond breaking, as a function of ethylene ad-
sorption energy on pseudomorphic Pd overlayers.
Remarkably, the slope of the Evans–Polanyi plot for C–H
bond activation of ethylene and ethyl are almost identical,
with a value of 0.65. This is most likely because the reaction
mechanism for C–H bond activation and the location of the
transition state along the reaction coordinate for ethyl and
ethylene are very similar.
Figure 10 shows the activation barrier for ethylene C–H
bond activation as a function of the ethylene binding en-
ergy. The ﬁgure suggests that C–H bond activation of ethy-
lene is easier on surfaces where ethylene is more strongly
bound. Again, this is consistent with our expectation based
on metal–adsorbate bond strengths. Since vinyl formation
results in more metal–adsorbate bonds than the reactant
(di-σ-bound ethylene), surfaces that form stronger metal–
adsorbate bonds appear to favor C–H bond breaking of
ethylene.
4. ANALYSIS
4.1. Electronic Factors Determining Ethylene Adsorption
and Reaction Energetics on PdML/M(111) (M = Re, Ru,
Pd, and Au) Surfaces
In the results presented so far, we have shown that
ethylene and hydrogen are very weakly bound to the
312
PALLASSANA AND NEUROCK
PdML/Re(0001)
surface
and
strongly
bound
to
the
PdML/Au(111) surface. This result is somewhat surprising
since it seems to suggest that PdML/Re(0001) is relatively
inert for ethylene and hydrogen adsorption as compared
to both Pd(111) and Re(0001) surfaces. In contrast, the
PdML/Au(111) surface appears to be more reactive than
both the Pd(111) and Au(111) surfaces for ethylene and
hydrogen adsorption. In the following section, we analyze
the adsorption characteristics of the surface based on the
changes in the electronic properties of the metal surface
layer, in an attempt to explain the nonlinearity in the ad-
sorption strengths on bimetallic pseudomorphic overlayers.
In section 3.2 we showed that the hydrogenation of ethy-
lene has a lower barrier on the surfaces to which ethylene
and hydrogen are weakly bound. Conversely, the dehydro-
genation of ethylene to surface vinyl showed the opposite
trend; i.e., the dehydrogenation reaction was more favor-
able on surfaces where ethylene, vinyl, and hydrogen were
more strongly adsorbed (section 3.3). From a catalysis per-
spective, it would be interesting to examine how structural
and electronic changes of the metal surface affect the ac-
tivation barriers for these two opposite reactions, hydro-
genation and dehydrogenation.
In the reactions studied in this paper, the elementary C–
H bond breaking (vinyl formation) or C–H bond formation
(ethyl formation) processes take place over the Pd over-
layer atoms, without direct participation by the substrate
metal. However, from the results presented in this paper, it
is evident that the metal substrate plays an important role in
perturbing the electronic structure and chemical reactivity
of the surface Pd atoms. In the remaining sections, we will
analyze the intrinsicelectronicpropertiesofthesurfacethat
inﬂuence surface reactivity. The DFT-predicted trends are
rationalized on the basis of a simpliﬁed model from formal
chemisorption theory that was proposed by Hammer and
Nørskov (69, 79, 80, 84). The Hammer–Nørskov model is
an extension of the Newns–Anderson chemisorption model
(2, 69, 85–87).
4.2. Adsorption of Ethylene on Pd(111) and Bimetallic
Pd(111)/M(111) (M = Re, Ru, and Au)
The di-σ adsorption of ethylene on a metal surface in-
volves the interaction of the frontier π- (HOMO) and π*-
(LUMO) orbitals of ethylene with the s-, p-, and d-band of
the metal. Figure 11 shows the π- and π*-orbitals of vapor-
phase ethylene (see lowermost frame of Fig. 11). Follow-
ing the Hammer–Nørskov procedure (69), the interaction
of the π- and π*-states with the valence sp-band of tran-
sition metals was determined by performing DFT calcula-
tions for ethylene on Al(111). The interaction of the π- and
π*-orbitals with the sp-band results in a broadening and
slight downshift of the frontier orbital states of ethylene.
The renormalized π*-state is located very close to the Fermi
energy, while the renormalized π-state is located about
FIG. 11.
Frontier orbital interactions in the di-σ adsorption of ethy-
lene on Pd(111). Dark shaded regions indicate density of states (DOS)
projected to the carbon 2p orbital state. Lightly shaded areas correspond
to DOS projected to the surface Pd d-band. The bare Pd(111) surface
d-band (dotted line) is shown for comparison.
6.0 eV below the Fermi energy. The renormalized π- and
π*- states also couple with the valence d-band of the metal,
resulting in bonding and antibonding overlap orbitals. Since
the π*-state is closest to the Fermi energy, the coupling of
the π*-state of ethylene with the metal d-band is stronger
than the interaction of the π-orbital with the d-band.
Following the procedure of Hammer and Nørskov, the
interaction energy of ethylene with a metal surface may be
approximated by the expression (69)
Eads = Esp + Ed-hyb,
[1]
where Esp is the contribution to the total chemisorption
energy (Eads) of the interaction of ethylene with the sp-band
of the metal. Ed-hyb is the contribution due to the interaction
of ethylene with the valence d-band. As an approximation,
the Ed-hyb term may be written in terms of coupling of the
ETHYLENE HYDROGENATION/DEHYDROGENATION ON Pd OVERLAYERS
313
renormalized π- and π*-states of ethylene with the d-band.
Ed-hyb ≈−2 ·
·
f
V 2
π∗
επ∗−εd
+ f · Sπ∗Vπ∗
¸
−2 ·
·
(1 −f )
V 2
π
εd −επ
+ (1 + f ) · SπVπ
¸
, [2]
where f is the d-band ﬁlling, V 2
π and V 2
π∗are the d-band cou-
pling matrix elements for interaction with the renormalized
π- and π*-states, respectively, Sπ and Sπ* are overlap matrix
elements related to the coupling elements V by the expres-
sion S = −αV (α is a constant for the metal–adsorbate sys-
tem), εd is the location of the metal d-band center relative
to the Fermi-energy, and επ and επ* are the renormalized
energies of the π- and π*-orbitals of ethylene, with respect
to the Fermi energy, after interaction with the sp-band.
The ﬁrst term of Eq. [2] corresponds to the hybridization
gain and orthogonalization cost associated with the inter-
action of the π*-state of ethylene with the metal d-band. In
frontier orbital theory, this term is referred to as electron
backdonation. The second term of Eq. [2] is the hybridiza-
tion gain and orthogonalization cost related to the interac-
tion of the π-orbital of ethylene with the metal d-band. This
interaction is traditionally referred to as electron donation.
Figure 12 shows the valence sp- and d-bands projected
to the surface Pd layer for all the surfaces examined in this
paper. It is observed that the sp-band projected to the sur-
face Pd atoms is broad, diffuse, and almost identical for all
the surfaces. It is therefore reasonable to assume that the
interaction energy of ethylene with the sp-band is almost
the same for the surfaces of interest here (69). There are no-
ticeable differences, however, in the d-band projected to the
Pd overlayer. The projected d-band is located between +0.5
and −5.0 eV of the Fermi energy for the different surfaces
(Fig. 12). However, as the substrate is changed from Re to
Au, the fraction of the d-band which is close to the Fermi
level increases substantially. Table 4 summarizes the elec-
tronic properties for the bare metal surfaces. The d-band
ﬁlling for the surface Pd layer is determined by integrat-
ing the area under the projected d-band from −∞to +∞
and calculating the fractional area that is located below the
Fermi energy. Table 4 shows that there are negligible differ-
ences in the d-band ﬁlling for the surface Pd atoms as the
substrate is changed from Re to Au. The Pd d-band ﬁlling
is approximately 0.96 for all the surfaces studied here.
The d-band center for the Pd overlayer was calculated by
taking the ﬁrst moment of the projected density of d-states
about the Fermi energy. The d-band center of monometal-
lic Pd(111) is located 2.0 eV below the Fermi energy. When
the substrate is a metal such as Re or Ru that is to the left
of Pd in the periodic table, the d-band center shifts farther
away from the Fermi energy. On the other hand, a pseu-
domorphic overlayer of Pd on a noble metal such as Au
has a d-band center which has moved closer to the Fermi
FIG. 12.
Electronic density of states (DOS) projected to the sur-
face Pd layer of pseudomorphic PdML/Re(0001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111),
and PdML/Au(111) surfaces. Thin line indicates projection to the valence
d-band. Thicker line corresponds to the sp-band. Arrow indicates location
of d-band centers (εd).
level. Ruban et al. have compiled an extensive database of
d-band center shifts for pseudomorphic overlayers of one
transition metal over another using linearized mufﬁn tin or-
bital (LMTO) calculations (22, 69). The shifts in the d-band
centers reported here are consistent with Ruban et al.’s
TABLE 4
Surface Electronic Properties of Bare PdML/Re(0001),
PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111), and PdML/Au(111) Slabs
d-Band coupling
d-Band
d-Band
Work
elementa V2
ﬁllinga
centera εd
function
Surface
(eV)2
f
(eV)
(eV)
PdML/Re(0001)
2.78
0.9601
−2.7
5.00
PdML/Ru(0001)
2.78
0.9566
−2.47
5.09
Pd(111)
2.78
0.9621
−2.01
5.30
PdML/Au(111)
2.78
0.9623
−1.69
5.36
a Indicated electronic properties are for the surface Pd layer.
314
PALLASSANA AND NEUROCK
calculated values. Koel and co-workers have experimen-
tally determined that the valence d-band of PdML/Au(111)
is located about 1.6 eV below the Fermi level (9). Our com-
puted value of 1.69 eV is in excellent agreement with their
experimental measurement.
The projected d-band centers for the surface Pd layer
over different substrates are located between −1.5 and
−2.7 eV of the Fermi energy. Earlier, we said that the renor-
malized π- and π*-states of ethylene after interaction with
the sp-band are situated approximately −6.0 and 0 eV, re-
spectively, relative to the Fermi energy. This implies that
the d-band center is in better resonance with the π*-state
than with the π-orbital of ethylene. Coupled with the fact
that the d-band ﬁlling (f) for all the surfaces is close to unity,
Eq. [2] may be simpliﬁed to
Ed-hyb ≈−2 ·
·
f
V 2
π∗
επ∗−εd
+ f · Sπ∗Vπ∗+ (1 + f ) · SπVπ
¸
.
[3]
The d-band coupling element is an intrinsic property of the
surface metal atom and is assumed to be independent of the
substrate. If we further assume that the orthogonalization
cost is roughly the same for all the surfaces examined here,
in the perturbation limit, Eq. [3] may be rewritten as
δEd-hyb ≈−2 ·
·
f
V 2
π∗
(επ∗−εd)2
¸
· δεd,
[4]
where δEd-hyb is the change in the adsorption energy of
ethylene due to the δεd shift in the surface d-band cen-
ter. Equation [4] is very similar to the analysis of Hammer
and Nørskov for CO adsorption on metal surfaces (84).
Equation [4] predicts that changes in the adsorption en-
ergy of ethylene should correlate linearly with shifts in the
surface metal d-band center. In Fig. 13, we have plotted
the di-σ adsorption energy of ethylene as a function of the
surface metal d-band center. The plot shows a near linear
FIG. 13.
DFT-GGA-predicted ethylene adsorption energy as a func-
tion of the Pd d-band center of the bare metal surfaces of PdML/Re(0001),
PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111), and PdML/Au(111).
correlation between the ethylene adsorption energy and
the bare surface d-band center, conﬁrming the predictions
based on the Hammer–Nørskov model. Figure 13 shows
that ethylene binding energies are higher on pseudomor-
phic Pd overlayer surfaces, where the Pd d-band center is
closer to the Fermi energy. The weaker ethylene adsorp-
tion energy for Pd monolayers on Re(0001) and Ru(0001)
are due to the weaker backdonation interaction between
the surface Pd d-band and the ethylene π*-orbital. In an-
alyzing the adsorption of ethylene on PdML/Mo(100), Koel
and co-workers argued that the weaker adsorption of ethy-
lene on the PdML/Mo(100) surface, relative to Pd(111), was
due to rehybridization of the Pd d-band to lower energies,
causing decreased backdonation to the ethylene π*-orbital
(68). Our theoretical calculations are consistent with the
speculations of Koel and co-workers.
4.3. C–H Bond Activation of Ethyl and Ethylene on
Pd(111) and Bimetallic Pd(111)/M(111) (M = Re, Ru,
and Au) Surfaces
In the previous section, we showed how the Hammer–
Nørskov analysis allows the correlation of the ethylene di-σ
adsorption energy to an intrinsic electronic property of the
bare metal surface. In this section, the analysis is extended
to the correlation of activation barriers for the hydrogena-
tion/dehydrogenation of ethylene to the bare surface elec-
tronic properties.
Although the transition state is a short-lived species, the
electronic interactions of the transition state with a metal
surface are not fundamentally different from the interac-
tions of molecular and atomic adsorbates with metals. The
coupling of the transition state to the metal is often con-
trolled by electron donation and backdonation interactions
with the metal surface. Since the Hammer–Nørskov analy-
sis correlates metal–adsorbate binding strengths to frontier
orbital interactions, it is easily extended to the analysis of
transition states. To accomplish this, Hammer and Nørskov
introduced an approximate reactivity measure to examine
trends in the activation barrier for H2 adsorption on met-
als (69, 80). This reactivity measure is based on estimating
the strength of interaction between the adsorbate and the
metal, at the transition state.
In section 1.2, we analyzed the electronic interactions be-
tween the transition state and the metal for ethyl C–H bond
activation. By following Hammer and Nørskov’s analysis
(80), we can approximate the interaction energy (δEts) at
the transition state for ethyl and ethylene C–H bond break-
ing by the expression
δEts = −2 ·
"
f
V 2
σCH∗
εσCH∗−εd
+ f · SσCH∗VσCH∗
#
−2 ·
"
(1 −f )
V 2
σCH
εd −εσCH
+ (1 + f ) · SσCHVσCH
#
.
[5]
ETHYLENE HYDROGENATION/DEHYDROGENATION ON Pd OVERLAYERS
315
This expression is very similar to the one written earlier for
adsorption (i.e., Eq. [2]), except that the frontier orbitals
of interest, at the transition state, are the σ CH and σCH∗
orbitals. Since the d-band of the Pd overlayer is in better
resonance with the antibonding σCH∗state and the d-band
ﬁlling for the surface Pd layer in all cases is close to unity,
we can simplify Eq. [5] to
δEts = −2 ·
·
f
V 2
σCH∗
εσCH∗−εd
+ f · SσCH∗VσCH∗
+ (1 + f ) · SσCHVσCH
¸
.
[6]
If we assume that the orthogonalization cost is nearly the
same for all the surfaces studied here, as an approximation,
the shift in the interaction energy at the transition state can
be correlated to the d-band center through the expression
1δEts = −2 ·
"
f
V 2
σCH∗
¡
εσCH∗−εd
¢2
#
· 1εd.
[7]
If it is further assumed that the activation barriers are in
some respect proportional to the reactivity measure, a lin-
ear correlation would be expected between the activation
barrier and the d-band center of the pseudomorphic Pd
overlayer. In Fig. 14, we have tested the model by plotting
the DFT-computed ethyl and ethylene C–H bond activa-
tion barrier as a function of the bare metal d-band center.
The excellent correlation between these two parameters
demonstrates the effectiveness of the Hammer–Nørskov
analysis for correlating the activation barrier to an intrin-
sic surface electronic property (i.e., the d-band center).
Figure 14 shows that the C–H bond activation barriers for
ethyl and ethylene decrease as the surface Pd d-band center
shifts closer toward the Fermi energy. This is because the
FIG. 14.
DFT-GGA-computed C–H bond activation barriers for
ethylene (K) and ethyl (j) versus the Pd d-band center of the bare metal
surfaces of PdML/Re(0001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111), and PdML/Au(111).
C–H bond activation process on these surfaces is primar-
ily controlled by backdonation into the σCH∗orbital and is
more favored as the d-band of the metal is in resonance
with this antibonding state.
An interesting observation from Fig. 14 is that the slopes
of the C–H bond activation barrier as a function of the
d-band center are almost identical for ethyl and ethylene.
The results we present here are actually an extension of
the ideas originally introduced by Hammett in analyzing
the electronic effect of substituents (–X) on the reactivity
of substituted benzenes (88). Hammett’s equation is tradi-
tionally written as (89)
log10
µkx
k0
¶
= ρσ,
[7]
where the ratio (kx/k0) is the enhancement in the reaction
rate due to the presence of the substituent (X), in compari-
son to a homologous reference molecule. σ is some measure
of the electron-withdrawing nature of the substituent X. ρ
is the measure of the inﬂuence of the electron-withdrawing
substituent (X) on the reaction rate (89). Hammett sug-
gested that if a linear correlation is obtained for log10(kx/k0)
plotted as a function of the σ parameter, it implies that the
position of the transition state is not changing as a result of
changing the substituent and that the reaction mechanism
is invariant (89). In our work, the d-band center is some-
what analogous to the σ parameter because it is a measure
of the electron-backdonating capability of the metal sur-
face to the reacting entity. Since the C–H bond activation
mechanism remains the same, the linearity in the activation
barrier vs the d-band center should be preserved. A close
comparison of the slopes for C–H bond activation of ethyl
and ethylene as a function of the d-band center (Fig. 14)
demonstrates that the electronic inﬂuence of the metal sur-
face on C–H bond breaking is very similar in both cases. In
analogy to Hammett’s equation, this is tantamount to hav-
ing an identical “ρ” parameter for ethylene and ethyl C–H
bond activation on the various pseudomorphic Pd overlay-
ers. The changes in the intercept as one changes the reac-
tant should correlate with the electronic properties of the
reactant. Developing such correlations could have an im-
portant impact on the design of new systems, whereby the
electronic structure of the surface and the reactant could be
easily computed independently to tailor optimal reactant–
substrate reactivity.
5. CONCLUSIONS
The (√3 × √3) periodic adsorption of ethylene was ex-
amined on pseudomorphic overlayers of Pd on Re(0001),
Ru(0001), Pd(111), and Au(111) substrates, using DFT-
GGA slab calculations. The adsorption energies for ethy-
lene on PdML/Re(0001), PdML/Ru(0001), Pd(111), and
PdML/Au(111) were estimated to be −10, −31, −62, and
316
PALLASSANA AND NEUROCK
−78 kJ/mol, respectively. The DFT-computed dissociative
adsorption energies for H2 on these surfaces were +2, −6,
−78, and −83 kJ/mol, respectively, for 100% surface cov-
erage on each surface. The calculated trends in adsorption
energies are in good agreement with experimental obser-
vations for adsorption of CO on the pseudomorphic over-
layers (7, 9). The weaker adsorption energy for ethylene on
PdML/Re(0001) and PdML/Ru(0001), relative to Pd(111), is
because of the weaker backdonation interaction between
the metal d-band and the ethylene π*-orbital. This is iden-
tical to the arguments used by Koel and co-workers to
explain the weaker adsorption strengths of ethylene on
PdML/Mo(100) as compared to those on Pd(111) (68).
In addition to chemisorption, the surface reactions of
ethylene hydrogenation to ethyl and ethylene dehydro-
genation to vinyl were examined on all the surfaces. Based
on the DFT-computed results, it appears that the hydro-
genation of ethylene to ethyl and the hydrogenation of
vinyl to ethylene have lower activation barriers on sur-
faces to which the adsorbates are weakly bound. The ac-
tivation barrier for hydrogenation is, therefore, low on
the PdML/Re(0001) surface and high on the PdML/Au(111)
surface. On the other hand, dehydrogenation reactions of
ethyl and ethylene are favored on surfaces with stronger
metal–adsorbate bond strengths. β-Hydride elimination of
ethyl and vinyl formation have lower activation barriers
on PdML/Au(111) as compared to PdML/Re(0001). In all
cases, the activation barriers are observed to correlate lin-
early with the overall reaction energy, consistent with the
Evans–Polanyi relationship and the Hammond postulate.
The correlation between the C–H bond activation bar-
rier and overall reaction energy is most evident for the
β-hydride elimination of both ethyl and ethylene, which
have slopes of 0.65. This is within the range (0 < slope < 1)
expected on the basis of the Evans–Polanyi postulate. The
identical slopes for ethyl and ethylene C–H bond activa-
tion on the Evans–Polanyi plot are likely because of the
very similar mechanism for both reactions and the anal-
ogous location of the transition state along the reaction
coordinate.
Finally, we have analyzed the DFT-predicted trends in
ethylene adsorption energy and the activation barriers for
hydrogenation/dehydrogenation based on frontier-orbital
theory and the Hammer–Nørskov model (2, 69, 87, 90,
91). It appears that the d-band center of the surface metal
atom is an important parameter that helps to determine the
strength of adsorption of ethylene and hydrogen on the sur-
face. Ethylene and hydrogen are more strongly bound on
surfaceswherethed-bandcenterisclosertotheFermilevel.
Activation barriers for C–H bond breaking of ethyl and
ethylene also appear to correlate to the surface Pd d-band
center. The C–H bond activation process is primarily gov-
erned by the backdonation of electrons from the metal into
the antibonding σ*-orbital of the adsorbate. Surfaces where
the d-band center is closer to the Fermi energy are there-
fore more reactive for dehydrogenation. The PdML/Au(111)
surface, which has the d-band center closest to the Fermi
level, amongst all the surfaces examined here, has the low-
est barrier for C–H bond breaking. On the other hand, the
PdML/Re(0001) surface, which has the d-band center far-
thest from the Fermi level, favors ethylene hydrogenation.
The trends are consistent with the ideas of Hammett which
suggest that the slope of the correlation will hold for other
molecules, provided that the mechanism remains the same.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank Professor Jens Nørskov, Professor Bjørk
Hammer, and Dr. Lars Hansen for helpful discussions as well as for the use
of their plane-wave pseudopotential program. We also thank Dr. Victor
S. Lusvardi, Dr. Kathy Saturday, Dr. Jan Lerou, Dr. Bruce Smart, and
Professor Robert J. Davis for their helpful discussions. The DuPont Chem-
ical Company (USA) and the NSF (Career Award CTS-9702762) are ac-
knowledged for ﬁnancial support. Acknowledgment is made to the donors
of The Petroleum Research Fund (Grant 31342G5), administered by the
ACS, for support of this research. V.P. expresses gratitude to the Uni-
versity of Minnesotta-IBM Shared Research Project, ACS, and the NSF
(CDA-9502979) for support through the IBM Graduate Student Award
in Computational Chemistry.
REFERENCES
1. Masel, R. I., “Principles of Adsorption and Reaction on Solid Sur-
faces.” John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York, 1996.
2. van Santen, R. A., “Theoretical Heterogeneous Catalysis.” World Sci-
entiﬁc Publishing Company, Pvt. Ltd., Singapore, 1991.
3. Sinfelt, J. H., “Bimetallic Catalysts: Discoveries, Concepts and Appli-
cations.” Wiley, New York, 1983.
4. Schwartz, J. T., E. I. DuPont de Nemours and Company, U.S. Patent
5,478,952, 1995.
5. Mabry, M., Prichard, W., and Ziemecki, S., E. I. DuPont de Nemours
and Company, U.S. Patent 4,609,636, 1986.
6. Mabry, M., Prichard, W., and Ziemecki, S., E. I. DuPont de Nemours
and Company, U.S. Patent 4,550,185, 1985.
7. Campbell, R. A., Rodriguez, J. A., and Goodman, D. W., Phys. Rev. B
46, 7077 (1992).
8. Rodriguez, J. A., and Goodman, D. W., Science 257, 897 (1992).
9. Sellidj, A., and Koel, B. E., Phys. Rev. B 49, 8367 (1994).
10. Koel, B. E., Sellidj, A., and Paffett, M. T., Phys. Rev. B 46, 7846 (1992).
11. Xinyin, S., Frankel, D. J., Hermanson, J. C., Lapeyre, G. J., and Smith,
R. J., Phys. Rev. B 32, 2120 (1985).
12. Hasegawa, Y., Jia, J. F., Inoue, K., Sakai, A., and Sakurai, T., Surf. Sci.
386, 328 (1997).
13. Baddeley, C. J., Barnes, C. J., Wander, A., Ormerod, R. M., King, D. A.,
and Lambert, R. M., Surf. Sci. 314, 1 (1994).
14. Bauer, E., in “The Chemical Physics of Solid Interfaces and Hetero-
geneous Catalysis” (D. A. King and D. P. Woodruff, Eds.), Vol. 3.
Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1984.
15. Rodriguez, J. A., and Goodman, D. W., J. Phys. Chem. 95, 4196
(1991).
16. Campbell, C. T., Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 41, 775 (1990).
17. Godbey, D. J., and Somorjai, G. A., Surf. Sci. 204, 301 (1988).
18. Santra, A. K., and Rao, C. N. R., Appl. Surf. Sci. 84, 347 (1995).
19. Pick, S., J. Phys. Chem. 99, 15375 (1995).
20. Wu, R., and Freeman, A. J., Phys. Rev. B 52, 12419 (1995).
ETHYLENE HYDROGENATION/DEHYDROGENATION ON Pd OVERLAYERS
317
21. Hammer, B., Morikawa, Y., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 76,
2141 (1996).
22. Ruban, A., Hammer, B., Stoltze, P., Skriver, H. L., and Nørskov, J. K.,
J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 115, 421 (1997).
23. Pallassana, V., Neurock, M., Hansen, L., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J.,
Phys. Rev. B 60, 6146 (1999).
24. Pallassana, V., Neurock, M., and Coulston, G. W., J. Phys. Chem. B
103(42), 8973 (1999).
25. Stuve, E. M., and Madix, R. J., J. Phys. Chem. 89, 105 (1985).
26. Guo, X., and Madix, R. J., J. Catal. 155, 336 (1995).
27. Gates, J. A., and Kesmodel, L. L., Surf. Sci. 120, L461 (1982).
28. Ratajczykowa, I., and Szymerska, I., Chem. Phys. Lett. 96, 243
(1983).
29. Sekitani, T., Takaoka, T., Fujisawa, M., and Nishijima, M., J. Phys.
Chem. 96, 8462 (1992).
30. Nishijima, M., Yoshinobu, J., Sekitani, T., and Onchi, M., J. Chem.
Phys. 90, 5114 (1989).
31. Merrill, P
. B., and Madix, R. J., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 118, 5062
(1996).
32. Cremer, P
. S., Su, X., Shen, Y. R., and Somorjai, G. A., J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 118, 2942 (1996).
33. Zaera, F., Langmuir 12, 88 (1996).
34. Windham, R. G., Koel, B. E., and Paffett, M. T., Langmuir 4, 1113
(1988).
35. White, J. M., Langmuir 10, 3946 (1994).
36. Borg, H. J., van Hardeveld, R. M., and Niemantsverdriet, J. W., J.
Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 91, 3679 (1995).
37. Yagasaki, E., and Masel, R., Catalysis 11, 165 (1994).
38. Zaera, F., and Bernstein, N., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 116, 4881 (1994).
39. Cremer, P
., Stanners, C., Niemantsverdriet, J. W., Shen, Y. R., and
Somorjai, G., Surf. Sci. 328, 111 (1995).
40. Kovacs, I., and Solymosi, F., J. Phys. Chem. 97, 11056 (1993).
41. Horiuti, J., and Miyahara, K., NSRDS-NBS 13 (1968).
42. Horiuti, J., and Polanyi, M., Trans. Faraday Soc. 30, 1164 (1934).
43. Cremer, P
. S., and Somorjai, G. A., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 91,
3671 (1995).
44. Rekoske, J. E., Cortright, R. D., Goddard, S. A., Sharma, S. B., and
Dumesic, J. A., J. Phys. Chem. 96, 1880 (1992).
45. Neurock, M., in “Dynamics of Surfaces and Reaction Kinetics in Het-
erogeneous Catalysis” (G. F. Froment and K. C. Waugh, Eds.), Studies
in Surface Science and Catalysis 109. Elsevier Science, Amsterdam/
New York, 1997.
46. Neurock, M., and van Santen, R. A., J. Phys. Chem. B, in press.
47. Neurock, M., Pallassana, V., and van Santen, R. A., J. Am. Chem. Soc.,
122, 1150 (2000).
48. Saillard, J. S., and Hoffmann, R., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 106, 2006
(1984).
49. Neurock, M., App. Catal. A: Gen. 160, 169 (1997).
50. Neurock, M., and Pallassana, V., in “Transition State Modeling for
Catalysis” (D. G. Truhlar and K. Morokuma, Eds.), ACS Symposium
Series 721, Chapter 18, p. 226. American Chemical Society, Washing-
ton, DC, 1999.
51. Whitten, J. L., and Yang, H., Catal. Today 50, 603 (1999).
52. Burghgraef, H., Jansen, A. P. J., and van Santen, R. A., Chem. Phys.
177, 407 (1993).
53. Kratzer, P
., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., J. Chem. Phys. 105, 5595
(1996).
54. Kittel, C., “Introduction to Solid State Physics.” John Wiley and Sons,
Inc., New York, 1986.
55. Payne, M. C., Teter, M. P., Allan, D. C., Arias, T. A., and Joannopoulos,
J. D., Rev. Mod. Phys. 64, 1045 (1992).
56. Kresse, G., and Furthm¨
uller, Comput. Mater. Sci. 6, 15 (1996).
57. Troullier, N., and Martins, J. L., Phys. Rev. B 43, 1993 (1991).
58. Vosko, S. J., Wilk, L., and Nusair, M., Can. J. Phys. 58, 1200 (1980).
59. Hohenberg, P., and Kohn, W., Phys. Rev. B 136, 864 (1964).
60. Kohn, W., and Sham, L. J., Phys. Rev. A 140, 1133 (1965).
61. Perdew, J. P., Chevery, J. A., Vosko, S. H., Jackson, K. A., Pederson,
M. R., Singh, D. J., and Fiolhais, C., Phys. Rev. B 46, 6671 (1992).
62. Chadi, D. J., and Cohen, M. L., Phys. Rev. B 8, 5747 (1973).
63. Gillan, M. J., J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 1, 689 (1989).
64. Hammer, B., Hansen, L., and Nørskov, J. K., “DACAPO: A plane-
wave, pseudopotential total energy package.” Technical University of
Denmark, Lyngby, 1995.
65. Hammer, B., Hansen, L. B., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. B 59, 7413
(1998).
66. Rodriguez, J. A., Surf. Sci. 345, 347 (1996).
67. Shen, X. Y., Frankel, D. J., Hermanson, J. C., Lapeyre, G. J., and Smith,
R. J., Phys. Rev. B 32, 2120 (1985).
68. Heitzinger, J. M., Gebhard, S. C., and Koel, B. E., J. Phys. Chem. 97,
5327 (1993).
69. Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., in “Chemisorption and Reactivity on
Supported Clusters and Thin Films” (R. M. Lambert, G. Pacchioni,
Eds.), p. 285. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht, The Nether-
lands, 1997.
70. Paul, J. F., and Sautet, P., J. Phys. Chem. 98, 10906 (1994).
71. Fahmi, A., and van Santen, R. A., J. Phys. Chem. 100, 5676 (1996).
72. Kesmodel, L. L., and Gates, J. A., Surf. Sci. 111, L747 (1981).
73. Dong, W., Kresse, G., Furthm¨
uller, J., and Hafner, J., Phys. Rev. B 54,
2157 (1996).
74. Paul, J. F., and Sautet, P., Phys. Rev. B 53, 8015 (1996).
75. Paul, J. F., and Sautet, P., Surf. Sci. 356, L403 (1996).
76. “CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics,” 78th (D. R. Lide, Ed.)
CRC Press, Boston, 1998.
77. Dong, W., Kresse, G., and Hafner, J., J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 119, 69
(1997).
78. Conrad, H., Ertl, G., and Latta, E. E., Surf. Sci. 41, 435 (1974).
79. Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Nature 376, 238 (1995).
80. Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Surf. Sci. 343, 211 (1995).
81. Gates, B. C., “Catalytic Chemistry.” John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New
York, 1992.
82. Hammond, G. S., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 77, 334 (1955).
83. Boudart, M., and Djega-Mariadassou, G., “Kinetics of Heterogeneous
Catalytic Reactions.” Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1984.
84. Hammer, B., Nielsen, O. H., and Nørskov, J. K., Catal. Lett. 46, 31
(1997).
85. Newns, D. M., Phys. Rev. B 178, 1123 (1969).
86. Brivio, G. P., and Trioni, M. I., Rev. Mod. Phys. 71, 231 (1999).
87. van Santen, R. A., and Neurock, M., Catal. Rev. 37, 557 (1995).
88. Hammett, L. P., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 59, 96 (1937).
89. Lowry, T. H., and Richardson, K. S., “Mechanism and Theory in Or-
ganic Chemistry.” Harper & Row, New York, 1987.
90. Hoffmann, R., “Solids and Surfaces, A chemist’s view of bonding in
extended surfaces.” VCH, New York, 1988.
91. Hoffmann, R., Angew. Chem. Tnt. Ed. Engl. 21, 711 (1982).
