Catalysis by very small Au clusters
Steeve Chrétien, Steven K. Buratto, Horia Metiu *
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106-9510, USA
a r t i c l e
i n f o
Article history:
Received 6 June 2008
Accepted 28 July 2008
Keywords:
Catalysis
Mass-selected clusters
Small gold clusters
CO oxidation
a b s t r a c t
We review recent theoretical and experimental work on the catalytic properties of Au clusters that con-
tain a few atoms and are supported on an oxide surface. The clusters are mass-selected and landed slowly
on the oxide surface in ultra-high vacuum. STM measurements show that the clusters do not fragment
and do not damage the surface when they are deposited nor do they coarsen after deposition. Their cat-
alytic activity changes non-monotonically with the number of atoms and is sensitive to the nature of the
support and to additives (hydroxyls, water, Na, Cl) present on the surface. Binary clusters (e.g. AunSr) can
be more active than unary ones. Very recent work has managed to study catalysis by such clusters under
realistic pressure conditions; their performance is very different from (and sometimes better than) that of
large clusters.
 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Numerous experiments and calculations have established that
the reactivity of small metallic clusters in gas-phase varies with
the number of atoms and with the charge on the clusters. The
chemistry of Men differs from that of Men1, or Men+1, or Meþ
n , or
Me
n . It is therefore natural to assume that very small clusters sup-
ported on an oxide surface may have novel and interesting cata-
lytic properties that are different from those of the larger clusters
(over 1 nm) normally used in catalysis. One expects the following:
(1) Changing the number of atoms in a small cluster will change its
catalytic properties. (2) The small size limits the number of reac-
tions that can take place on the cluster, which may increase selec-
tivity. (3) A small cluster is likely to be more sensitive to the nature
of the support than a large one. (4) The catalytic properties of a
small cluster may change more drastically when it is alloyed. (5)
Promoter or poisons can affect small clusters more dramatically.
(6) The cluster may change its properties if exposed to charge do-
nors or acceptors. (7) If the catalyst is an expensive metal or one
that is in short supply, using small clusters is economically appeal-
ing. Overall, we expect that molecular clusters are more tunable
catalysts, since their properties are sensitive to a change in the
number of atoms, the composition of the cluster, the support or
the additives.
Before celebrating these possibilities, we need to be aware of
the handicaps. (1) Under reaction conditions an ensemble of very
small clusters is likely to coarsen and evolve into an ensemble of
large clusters of non-uniform size distribution [1,2]. (2) The meth-
ods by which small mass-selected clusters are prepared are too
expensive for practical use.
These systems are interesting to the scientist. They are new and
very little is known about their chemistry. They are amenable for
theoretical studies due to the small size of the clusters involved.
They may (or may not) provide some insights that can be extrapo-
lated to the large clusters used in practical catalysts.
In this article, we review work on CO oxidation by very small Au
clusters. To distinguish them from the clusters usually used in
catalysis, we call them ‘molecular clusters’. We have chosen Au be-
cause it is a new catalyst that is being studied extensively and be-
cause it illustrates the problems and the potential of catalysis by
mass-selected clusters.
2. Experimental results
2.1. Generalities
One can prepare mass-selected, ionic clusters and deposit them
gently on a solid surface in ultra-high vacuum (UHV). They are
neutralized very efﬁciently when they come in contact with the
surface by either resonant charge transfer or by Auger neutraliza-
tion [3]. The ﬁnal system consists of neutral molecular clusters
bound to the support surface, all having the same composition
and number of atoms.
This preparation method was introduced by Heiz, Sherwood, Cox,
Kaldor and Yates [4] in 1995 who prepared Pt (n = 1, or 2, or 3) clus-
ters on silica ﬁlms. They showed that the chemistry of these clusters
differs from that of large Pt clusters. Heiz pursued this line of exper-
imental research very successfully [5–36], followed by the group of
Anderson in Utah [37–44], that of Buratto [45–52] in Santa Barbara,
1359-0286/$ - see front matter  2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.cossms.2008.07.003
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +1 805 893 2256; fax: +1 805 893 4120.
E-mail address: metiu@chem.ucsb.edu (H. Metiu).
Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cossms
and by Vajda and his colleagues at Argonne National Laboratory
[53,54].
Heiz’s group probes the properties of the clusters by thermally
programmed reaction (TPR). CO and O2 are adsorbed on the surface
at low temperature. Then the temperature is increased linearly in
time and the appearance of CO2 in the gas-phase is monitored. In
addition, they measure the IR absorption spectrum of adsorbed
CO. The vibrational frequency of CO depends on the size of the
clusters to which it is bound, and if the clusters coarsen the vibra-
tional frequency of CO changes. This may not tell us that Au2 clus-
ters merged to make Au4 cluster, but it will detect the presence of
large clusters. Anderson’s group monitors the surface properties
with XPS and ion scattering spectroscopy (ISS). The ISS signal is
proportional to the number of metal atoms of given mass that
are exposed to an incident ion beam. ISS is most sensitive to the
formation of large clusters that have ‘‘interior atoms” which no
longer scatter ions, and whose formation makes the ISS signal de-
cay. Anderson’s group performs kinetic measurements by adsorb-
ing oxygen on the surface (with a long exposure, since the
sticking coefﬁcient is low) and then exposing the surface to a CO
pulse and measuring the CO2 desorbed from the surface.
The kinetics of a catalytic reaction depends on temperature and
the partial pressure of the reactants, and the kinetics studied by
TPR or pulsed molecular beam in UHV may differ from that taking
place in practical catalysis. However, these methods are useful for
comparing the activities of clusters of different sizes, under well-
controlled conditions.
A great advance was made by the Argonne group, which pre-
pared supported mass-selected clusters and studied the kinetics
of catalytic reactions in a high-pressure cell, under realistic condi-
tions [53,54]. They have also managed to prepare supports that
seem to prevent coarsening of the small clusters under reaction
conditions [53,54].
2.2. STM work
The Santa Barbara group uses STM to examine the structure of
mass-selected clusters after they are deposited on an oxide surface.
By using STM measurements combined with DFT calculations,
Buratto’s group addressed the following questions: (1) Do the clus-
ters fragment during deposition? (2) Do they damage the surface of
the support? (3) Do they coarsen? (4) Is there any relation between
the gas-phase structure and the structure of the adsorbed clusters?
They investigated these questions for mass-selected Au and Ag
clusters deposited on rutile TiO2(110). While the STM images do
not resolve the atoms of the cluster, the 5c-Ti rows and the bridg-
ing-oxygen rows on the oxide surface are visible. The measure-
ments determine the size and the height of the cluster and its
position with respect to the bridging-oxygen rows. They found that
Au2 to Au7 clusters do not fracture and do not coarsen at room tem-
perature when deposited on TiO2(110). By combining the STM
measurements with DFT calculations, they proposed structures
and binding sites for the isomers of Aun (n = 2–7) adsorbed on
the TiO2(110) surface [46,49]. In general, the structures of the sup-
ported clusters differ from their structure in the gas-phase. The Au
clusters have a propensity of binding to oxygen vacancies if these
are present on the surface [46,49].
Many experiments evaporating Au atoms on rutile TiO2(110) at
room temperature have shown that the atoms migrate on the sur-
face and form large clusters. If such clusters are formed, they
should affect the ISS signal in Anderson’s experiments and they
do not [38,39,42]. Experiments performed at Santa Barbara show
that the conﬂicting results are due to water contamination during
sample transfer from the deposition chamber into the STM cham-
ber. If the sample is heated to 600 K, to remove water prior to Au
deposition, and is kept at this temperature during transfer into
the STM chamber, isolated Au atoms are observed on the surface.
They do not coarsen whether scanning is performed at room tem-
perature or at 600 K. The isolated Au atoms are adsorbed along the
bridging oxygen rows of TiO2(110) and theory ﬁnds that they are
located at oxygen vacancy sites (the number of Au atoms deposited
is smaller than the number of vacancies on the surface).
The kinetic energy of the clusters approaching the surface dur-
ing deposition is larger than the energy needed for removing one
atom from the cluster or for displacing surface atoms from their
positions. However, when a cluster hits the surface, the impact en-
ergy is distributed over several atoms in the cluster and on the sur-
face. Due to the interaction between the atoms, the collision
energy spreads over more and more atoms. The natural tendency
of the energy is to dissipate and it is improbable that enough en-
ergy will accumulate in one bond in the cluster to break it.
Calculations show [55] that even low energy impact can dis-
place surface atoms from their binding sites. If this happens, it is
most likely that they will move on the surface and heal the damage
(the damaged site is the best binding site). This opinion is rein-
forced by experiments in which high energy (100 eV) Au1 ions
were deposited on the surface [47]. No damage of the TiO2(110)
surface is observed even though some is bound to occur at these
high incident energies. We assume that damage took place but
the time between deposition and scanning is long enough to allow
the damage to heal.
The behavior of the Au atoms or of small clusters can be studied
by STM even without a source of mass-selected clusters: small
clusters are present on the surface if the Au coverage is low and
coarsening does not take place [56–70]. Much useful STM work
on the TiO2(110) surface [71–74] or on very thin oxide ﬁlms on
a conducting support [75–79] is also available.
2.3. CO oxidation by molecular Au clusters
An important question is whether the catalytic activity is
strongly dependent on cluster size. The results obtained in Heiz’s
group [13,17,28,31], for CO oxidation on Aun, n = 1–20, supported
on MgO, are summarized in Fig. 1. This shows the temperature pro-
gram reaction curves and the number of CO2 molecules produced
per cluster as a function of the number of atoms in the cluster.
No CO2 is detected for n = 1 and n = 2, comparatively little CO2
for n = 3–6, no CO2 for n = 7, and about one CO2 per cluster for
n = 8. For larger n the yield has irregular oscillations with an
ascending trend [13]. The most active is A18, which produces
2CO2 molecules per cluster.
Anderson’s group studied [38,42] CO oxidation by Aun, n = 1–7,
supported on rutile TiO2(110), and found no activity for Au2, a
small jump in activity for Au3, a decay for Au4, very low activity
for Au5, an increase for Au6, and a substantial increase for Au7. It
is
interesting
that
Au7
supported
on
MgO
is
inactive
[13,17,28,31] while it has the highest activity on TiO2. Unfortu-
nately, since the methods for probing kinetics in the two groups
are so different, it is difﬁcult to make a quantitative comparison
between the activities of Aun on the two substrates. It is, however,
clear that the substrate is important.
The electron binding energy in the XPS spectra of the Aun clus-
ters is the same regardless of n [38]. It is customary – but not al-
ways correct – to correlate the binding energy in XPS with the
charge on the electron-emitting atom. According to this interpreta-
tion, the charge on the Au atoms is independent of n. The DFT cal-
culations indicate that the charge on these small clusters changes
with cluster size and location on the surface (see Section 4.5).
The sticking coefﬁcient of O2 is very low and exposures of 600
Langmuir were needed to adsorb enough O2 on the surface to de-
tect it by ISS or to produce CO2 when the surface is exposed to
CO pulses [38]. ISS measurements indicate that the added oxygen
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
63
shadows the Au (i.e. an increase in 18O ISS signal is accompanied by
a decrease in the Au signal). ISS also established that CO adsorbs on
Au except for Au5 and Au6, for which no Au-signal attenuation is
observed upon CO adsorption. Anderson and co-workers concluded
that the activation energy for CO desorption must exceed 0.9 eV (if
a pre-exponential of 1013 is appropriate) because this will allow CO
to live long enough on top of Au to produce an ISS signal.
Heiz et al. [28] measured the activity for CO oxidation of AunSr
for n = 1–7 and found that it is substantially more active than Aun.
The Au7Sr cluster is very active (producing  0.8CO2 molecules per
cluster) while Au7 shows no activity. Two-component clusters
need further study!
Signiﬁcant progress has been made by the Argonne group, who
performed high-pressure kinetics on mass-selected Au6–Au10 clus-
ters deposited on alumina. The gold clusters were stabilized by
depositing a protective layer of alumina on them. It was found that
the clusters have high activity and selectivity for propylene epox-
idation. Adding water to the feed improved selectivity. It is inter-
esting
that
experiments
with
large
Au
clusters
observed
epoxidation only when the clusters were supported on titania
and required the presence of H2 in the feed. Neither condition is re-
quired if the epoxidation is catalyzed by molecular clusters.
The same group managed to show that Pt8–Pt10 clusters are two
orders of magnitude more active than catalysts using large Pt par-
ticles, for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene,
and that Ag3 catalyzes propene epoxidation with good selectivity
and activity, at temperatures below 100 C.
These studies provides some justiﬁcation for the hope that the
performance of the catalysts consisting of molecular clusters might
exceed that of commercial catalysts, or that such clusters can be
used to catalyze new chemistry. It appears that it is possible to pre-
vent coarsening through a careful fabrication of the support.
Unfortunately, it is not likely that industrial catalysts will be
prepared by depositing mass-selected clusters on a support.
Another possibility is to use organometallic compounds and bind
them chemically to the surface of an oxide or the inner pores of
a zeolite. This has two advantages: (1) if the organometallic is ther-
mally stable and its bond to the surface is strong, there will be very
little coarsening; (2) these systems can be prepared in large quan-
tities, on the surface of the highly dispersed supports used in prac-
tical catalysis. Excellent reviews of this interesting ﬁeld are
available [80–83] and we do not discuss it here.
Before concluding this section, we mention another method of
preparation, which is valuable for scientiﬁc studies [60–65,67,84–
87]. This uses supports consisting of very thin oxide ﬁlms grown
on an electrically conducting ﬂat surface. In favorable cases, the ﬁlm
is crystalline and has a well-deﬁned structure. Good STM images of
the ﬁlms are obtainable because the electrons tunnel through them
into the conducting substrate. Small metal clusters deposited on
them can be studied at low temperatures to obtain STM images
and I–V curves. The metal atoms or clusters can also be moved with
the tip to construct clusters of selected geometries and investigate
their electronic properties individually [60,69,87–93].
3. Theory
Supported molecular clusters have few atoms and it is possible
to study their chemistry by using density functional theory (DFT).
DFT has been successful for studying the adsorption and the reac-
tivity of molecules on metal surfaces. Unfortunately we have rea-
sons to suspect that GGA-DFT calculations for some quantities,
for some oxides having narrow d- or f- bands, might be in error.
We do not know for which oxides this might be true, nor do we
know which quantities might be calculated erroneously. This issue
is too involved to be reviewed properly here, and we recommend
two excellent recent articles [94,95]. Given this situation, it is best
to study trends, which depend on DFT being qualitatively correct.
100
300
500
700
900
Au2
Temperature / K
Au6
Au7
Au
8
Au18
Au9
Au12
AuFilm
Au 20
(a)
0.17%ML
13C
16O
18O
+ Signal/a.u.
0
4
8 10 1214161820
0
1
2
3
(b)
Number of CO2
n/Number of atoms per cluster 
800
600
400
200
22
6
2
Fig. 1. (a) Temperature programmed reaction experiments for the CO-oxidation on selected Aun clusters on defect-rich MgO(100) ﬁlms. The model catalysts are saturated at
90 K with 13CO and 18O2 and the isotopomer 13C18O16O is detected with a mass spectrometer, as a function of temperature; (b) The reactivities for Aun expressed as the
number of formed CO2 per cluster (from [36]).
64
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
Another problem is electron spin. In a theory that neglects the
spin–orbit coupling, a reaction in which the total electronic spin
of the reactants differs from that of the products is forbidden: its
rate is equal to zero. If the spin–orbit interaction is taken into ac-
count, transitions between states with different total electron spin
are allowed but are slow, since spin–orbit coupling energy is small.
One can understand these constraints without invoking theory: the
internal magnetic ﬁelds are much too weak to be able to ‘‘ﬂip the
electron spin” as the system evolves from reactants to products.
This means that when one calculates the potential energy surface
one should not allow a change in the electron spin polarization
(i.e. the number of spins up minus the number of spin down) as
the position of the nuclei changes along the reaction coordinate.
One should calculate several potential energy surfaces, one for each
possible spin polarization of the reactants. An interesting example
is provided by the dissociation of O2 adsorbed near an oxygen va-
cancy on the TiO2(110) surface. DFT calculations that disregard
the conservation of spin polarization [96–99] predict a very high
activation energy for oxygen dissociation while experiments
[73,100–103] show that the dissociation is facile at room tempera-
ture. Calculations which conserve spin [104] arrive a different
conclusion. In Fig. 2 we show the four structures corresponding to
four different minima on the potential energy surface, together
with the energy level diagrams for transition between these states
[104]. Since the vacancy is a triplet and O2 is a triplet, their joint
spin state can be singlet, triplet or quintet. These states are degen-
erate when the O2 molecule is away from the surface. When O2 is
brought on the surface the quintet state is repulsive and the singlet
and the triplet states are bound. Depending on the dynamics of the
adsorption process, the O2 molecule may bind in any of the states
b–f. The dissociated state h can be reached from any of these states.
For the triplet state all barriers for reaching h are small. The singlet
can reach h rapidly only if O2 adsorbs in the state g; from the other
states the barriers are rather high. The most important point of
these calculations is that imposing spin conservation changes con-
siderably the kinetics of oxygen evolution.
A rigorous procedure for dealing correctly with the total spin of
the electrons requires us to ensure that the many-body electron
wave function is an eigenstate of the total spin operator squared.
Unfortunately, we do not know how to impose this constraint
within the density functional theory, since DFT does not provide
the many-body electronic wave function. Some non-rigorous solu-
tions to this problem, for surface science systems, have been pro-
posed
[105–107].
Our
non-rigorous
solution
is
to
compute
potential
energy
surfaces
that
conserve
spin
polarization
[104,108]. The need for spin-conservation during a chemical reac-
tion has been extensively discussed in work applying DFT to orga-
nometallic and radical chemistry [109–120].
Approximate theories can be tested by comparison with accu-
rate experiments. Unfortunately, such comparisons are inconclu-
sive for realistic catalysts, because we do not know the structure
of their surfaces. DFT can also be tested by comparison with
numerically exact calculations. Such calculations are not possible
for the systems of interest to catalysis, because they contain too
many electrons. The difﬁculties in performing accurate high-level
calculations are illustrated by the recent efforts to determine
whether the gas-phase Au8 cluster is planar or has a three-dimen-
sional geometry [121–124]; the high-level, benchmark calcula-
tions had errors due to the limited basis set forced on them by
the size of the system.
In spite of the reservations expressed above it is reasonable to
expect that most results of GGA-DFT are qualitatively correct.
While the activation energies may not be accurate, the reaction
mechanism is likely to be correct if the activation energy on the
most likely pathway is substantially smaller than the activation
energies on the discarded pathways.
4. The activity of supported molecular Au clusters
The discovery by Haruta that small Au clusters are good cata-
lysts [70,125–133] has caused quite a bit of excitement. Many rea-
sons for the activity of small clusters have been suggested and we
review here some of them.
4.1. Orbital ‘‘roughness”, not low coordination
Since the early work in Nørskov’s group, it has been generally
accepted that small Au clusters are active because their surface
has a large number of under-coordinated sites [134–141]. This
concept has been reﬁned (and modiﬁed) in a series of papers
[142–146] that propose that the reactivity of a cluster is controlled
by the shape of the frontier orbitals (HOMO or LUMO) and not by
the coordination of the binding site. It is the ‘‘orbital roughness”
of the surface, not the geometric roughness, that controls reactiv-
ity. However, often undercoordinated sites are also sites where
the frontier orbitals have a favorable shape. In such cases, the
two points of view lead to the same conclusions. There are how-
ever examples where the frontier orbital rules make correct predic-
tions and rules based on undercoordination fail.
To describe the orbital roughness rules we introduce the follow-
ing nomenclature. We call SOMO a single occupied Kohn–Sham
(KS) molecular orbital, LUMO1 the unoccupied KS orbital having
the lowest energy and LUMO2 the unoccupied orbital having the
second lowest energy. These orbitals control the binding site and
the binding energy of those molecules (e.g. propene, propene oxide
and CO) that bind to the clusters by donating electrons. We call an
electron donor a molecule that binds more strongly to Auþ
n than to
Aun and more weakly to Au
n than to Aun.
Rule 1: A charge donor binds most strongly at a site where
LUMO1 of the bare cluster protrudes farthest in the vac-
uum. This rule holds even if that site is not the lowest
coordination site. The shape and the energy of SOMO
are irrelevant.
Rule 2: A given cluster can have several low-lying LUMOs which
protrude in the vacuum at different sites on the cluster. If
this is the case, an electron donor can bind at different
sites, producing different isomers (same cluster, different
adsorbate locations). The strongest bond is at the site
where LUMO1 protrudes, the next strongest is where
LUMO2 protrudes, etc. Exceptions are rare and occur only
when the energies of LUMO1 and LUMO2 are very close
to each other.
Rule 3: A plot of the binding energy of the lowest energy isomer
of AunC3H6 versus n, has the same shape as a plot of the
energy of LUMO1 of the bare Aun cluster versus n. In other
words, if we compare propene binding to two lowest-
energy clusters having different numbers of Au atoms,
the propene binds most strongly to the cluster that has
the lowest LUMO1 energy.
In many cases, LUMO1 protrudes most at low coordination sites
on the cluster. However, this is not always true. An exception is
shown in Fig. 3 where propene binds more strongly to the doubly
coordinated site 1a than to a singly coordinates site in 1c. Accord-
ing to the orbital roughness rules, this happens because LUMO1
protrudes at the doubly coordinated site and LUMO2 protrudes
at the singly coordinated site.
Another instructive example is provided by the binding of pro-
pene to the clusters AgnAum (n + m = 4, m = 0, 1, 2, 3), which is
illustrated in Fig. 4. We ask the following question: what will
happen to the binding energy of the propene to site 1, if we
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
65
exchange the Ag atoms 2, 3 or 4, to which the propene is not
bound, with Au atoms? Since Au is more electronegative than
Ag, one would guess that replacing a Ag atom with Au will pull
away electrons from the Ag atom to which the propene is bound.
Since propene is an electron donor, removing some electrons
from the Ag atom to which the propene is bound will make the
propene-Ag bond stronger. Nothing of the sort happens when
we replace the Ag atoms 2 or 3 (see Figs. 4c and 4d) with Au.
Moreover, the energy of the LUMO1 of the bare Ag3Au and
Ag2Au2 clusters is the same as that of Au4. However, replacing
Ag atom 4 (see Fig. 4e) has a substantial effect on both the energy
of LUMO1 and on the binding energy of propene. The shape of the
LUMO1, shown in Fig. 4b, and the rules proposed above allow us
to understand why this is happening. The Ag atoms 2 and 3 par-
ticipate marginally in LUMO1; replacing them with Au does not
affect this orbital, and according to the rules, will not affect pro-
pene binding. Only the replacement of atom 4 affects the LUMO1
and the ability of the cluster to bind propene.
(a)
(f)
(c)
(b)
(d)
(e)
(g)
(h)
Fig. 2. Some of the lowest energy structures corresponding to the molecular and dissociative O2 adsorption on a partially reduced rutile TiO2(110) surface. (a) Reaction
proﬁles for oxygen evolution on TiO2(110). The upper diagram (in cyan) is for triplet, the lower diagram (in black) is for singlet. (b) O2 adsorbed on a 5c-Ti atom away from
the vacancy site. (c) O2 adsorbed between two 5c-Ti atoms. (d) O2 adsorbed on a 5c-Ti atom located next to an oxygen vacancy. (e) O2 adsorbed between two Ti atoms at the
vacancy site and a 5c-Ti atom adjacent to the oxygen vacancy. (f) O2 adsorbed at the vacancy site. (g) The lowest energy structure corresponding to the dissociative O2
adsorption for in the triplet state; one oxygen atom is healing the vacancy site while the other one is adsorbed over a 5c-Ti atom located next to the vacancy site. (h) The
lowest energy structure corresponding to the dissociative O2 adsorption for the singlet state: one oxygen atom is healing the vacancy site while the other one is adsorbed
between two 5c-Ti atoms and forming an oxygen molecule with an in-plane oxygen atom of TiO2. The relative energies (DE) are given with respect to O2 in the gas-phase and
a bare, partially reduced TiO2 (110) surface. DEact are the activation energies. de is the dissociation energy. The energies are in eV and were obtained using the PW91
functional with a [3  2] supercell and a 12-layer slab. The bridging oxygen vacancy concentration is 16.7%. d[O–O] are the distances (in Å) between the two oxygen atoms of
O2. Q[O2] is the total electronic charge on O2 obtained from a Bader analysis; negative numbers indicate electron gain upon adsorption (from [104]).
66
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
The rules for the adsorption of electron acceptors (i.e. oxygen)
are very similar, except that HOMO is involved instead of LUMO.
For example, oxygen binds to the sites where HOMO protrudes
in the vacuum [145,146].
These rules also explain why no adsorption takes place on the
ﬂat faces of the Au clusters or on ﬂat surfaces of single crystals of
Au: the frontier orbitals do not have any protrusions on such sites
[142–146]. On the other hand, one Au atom adsorbed on a Au(111)
surface binds oxygen or propene because both its LUMO and
HOMO are localized and stick out in the vacuum. The rules were
also used to explain why the Au clusters bind to certain locations
on the TiO2(110) surface. A surface modiﬁcation that places elec-
trons at the bottom of the conduction band will increase substan-
tially the bond of Au1 or O2 to the 5c-Ti atoms on the surface of
TiO2(110) [147]. This happens because these electrons populate
an orbital that protrudes into the vacuum at the location of the
5c-Ti atoms and molecules such as Au1 and O2 use the electrons
in this orbital to form a bond to the surface.
It is not necessary that surfaces that bind molecules are also
good catalysts. However, binding the reactants is a precondition
for catalytic activity; bulk Au is not a catalyst because almost no
molecule binds to it. This is why so many of the explanations for
the activity of small clusters revolve around their ability to bind
molecules.
4.2. Metal–insulator transition
It has been argued [148–151] that the catalytic activity of small
Au clusters correlates with the presence of a band gap. This
hypothesis is at odds with the observation that very small Au clus-
ters, which are planar, do not adsorb molecules on their ﬂat faces
[142–144,146] even though they have a large band gap. Moreover
small Au clusters placed on a Au(111) slab adsorb oxygen [145] or
propene [142] even though the system has no gap.
4.3. Support-induced strain
Distorting the geometry of a cluster when it is adsorbed on a
support will change its reactivity, and this has been invoked as a
possible cause for the activity of the small clusters [134]. It is unde-
niable that changing the geometry of the cluster changes its chem-
ical properties, but this is not an essential factor in explaining the
reactivity of Au.
4.4. The activated oxygen comes from the support
Very often, in the catalytic oxidation by oxides, the surface pro-
vides the oxygen for the oxidation reaction (the Mars–van Krevelen
mechanism). The role of the gas-phase oxygen is to reoxidize the
surface. Experiments using 18O2 in the gas and a Au/Al2O3 catalyst
to oxidize CO produce 18O16OC, indicating that in the case of sup-
ported Au, the oxidant is gas-phase oxygen [152].
4.5. The oxygen vacancies activate the Au cluster
Experiments with negatively charged Au clusters in gas phase
[153] have shown that they adsorb oxygen more strongly if they
have an odd number of atoms. DFT calculations [146] generalized
this rule and showed that Au clusters that contain an odd number
of electrons adsorb O2 more strongly than do Au clusters that con-
tain an even number of electrons, regardless of whether the
Fig. 3. (a,c) Two propene binding sites on the same Au cluster. De is the binding
energy of propene. (b) The shape of the LUMO1 orbital and its energy. (d) The shape
of LUMO2 orbital and its energy. Propene binds most strongly to the site where
LUMO1 protrudes not to the site having the lowest coordination.
Fig. 4. (a) Propene bound on a Ag4 cluster at the site that makes the strongest bond.
De is the binding energy of propene and eLUMO is the energy of LUMO1. (b) The
shape of LUMO1 of Ag4. (c) Propene binding on the same site of a Ag3Au cluster. We
replaced atom 2 with Au. The binding energy of propene and the energy of LUMO1
of the bare clusters are not changed by substitution with Au. (d) Similar to (c) but
Ag 2 and 3 are replaced with Au. (d) Propene binding to the same site of Ag3Au but
with Au replacing atom 4. Both the binding energy and the LUMO1 energy change.
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
67
clusters were negatively charged or were neutral. The adsorption
of O2 on such clusters weakens the O–O bond. Addition of one elec-
tron per supercell in a Au(111) slab on whose surface one had ad-
sorbed a small Au [145] cluster, also increases the ability of the
system to bind O2 and to weaken the O–O bond. It is therefore rea-
sonable to expect that the charge on a supported Au cluster plays a
role in its activity. In a series of papers Heiz, Landman and their
coworkers [13,28,35,36] have studied, by experiment and DFT cal-
culations, CO oxidation by several Au clusters supported on a
MgO(001) surface or on MgO(100) thin ﬁlm. They found that
the Au8 cluster catalyzes CO oxidation more efﬁciently when the
MgO support has missing-oxygen vacancies. Calculations show
[13,28,35,36] that the Au cluster takes electron density from the
vacancy and the catalyst is a negatively charged cluster.
The question is whether this observation is general and whether
the oxidation reaction by Au clusters supported on a reduced (i.e.
having oxygen vacancies) oxide surface is catalytic. DFT calcula-
tions [154] of the charge on the Aun (n = 1–7) adsorbed at an oxy-
gen vacancy site on rutile TiO2(100) show that not all clusters are
negatively charged. Some gain electron charge, some donate it, and
some adsorb without exchanging charge with the support.
The calculations done by Molina and Hammer [155] show that
CO and O2 adsorption on a Au20 cluster does not depend on
whether the cluster is located at an oxygen vacancy site or on a
stoichiometric TiO2(110) surface. This probably happens because
the electron density gained by the cluster is located under the clus-
ter, at the cluster-oxide interface, and it is not accessible to the
oxygen molecule. This seems to suggest that the presence of oxy-
gen vacancies becomes less important as the cluster size increases.
However, Goodman’s experiments [156–160] show that the pres-
ence of vacancies does matter for large Au islands that are two-
atom layers high.
Heiz et al. [17] have shown that the activity of Pd8 for CO oxida-
tion is the same whether the MgO surface had vacancies or not,
even though Pd is a fairly electronegative element.
Recent calculations [161] have shown that when molecular Au
clusters (n = 1–7) adsorbed at an oxygen vacancy site are exposed
to O2, the oxygen molecule inserts itself in the vacancy. In Fig. 5 we
show the evolution of O2 when it is adsorbed on a partially reduced
TiO2(110) having a Au2 cluster on it [104]. One can see that the
oxygen molecule pushes the Au2 cluster out of the oxygen vacancy
site and later dissociates placing one O atom in the vacancy. This is
not surprising since the energy of vacancy formation is very high
and the vacancy has therefore a great afﬁnity for oxygen. We ﬁnd
this behavior for all Aun clusters with n = 1–7. This means that if an
oxidation reaction is run for a sufﬁciently long time, the vacancies
will be annihilated. Therefore, Aun on reduced TiO2 is not a catalyst.
4.6. The catalyst is positively charged Au
In a paper that stimulated a lot of research, Fu et al. [162] pre-
pared a catalyst consisting of Au clusters on a high-area CeO2 sup-
port and dissolved the Au clusters in cyanide. The removal of the
large Au cluster did not change the catalytic activity for water
gas-shift. Before cluster removal, the XPS spectra had peaks typical
of the presence of Au0 and Au3+; after the removal only the peaks
corresponding to Au3+ were detected. Other studies made a similar
suggestion [132,162–181].
The experiments cannot determine unambiguously what this
‘‘ionic” Au is. We review some of the opinions advanced so far.
Wang et al. [182] performed calculations for a Au7 cluster sup-
ported on rutile TiO2(110). These led them to propose that a ‘‘po-
sitive Au” was observed in experiments (on different systems)
because the Au cluster donated electrons to the support. CO ad-
sorbs on such a cluster and its vibrational frequency is in the range
of
2164–2174 cm1.
Experimental
measurements
[183–186]
assign values in the range 2101–2110 cm1 for CO adsorbed on
Au0 and 2168–2176 cm1 to CO adsorbed on positively charged
Au. Thus a Au7 cluster that has transferred electrons to the sub-
strate behaves like the positive Au identiﬁed by IR experiments
on adsorbed CO. The XPS spectrum of this system has not been
computed.
It was also suggested that the ionic gold is a Au atom that sub-
stitutes the metal atom in the oxide support, to form a doped oxide
[108,187–189]. The presence of the dopant weakens the bond of
one of the neighboring oxygen atoms to the oxide, and makes it
a better oxidant. As a result, CO adsorbs on the surface more read-
ily to form a CO2 molecule (on TiO2(110) [108,187,189]) or a car-
bonate (on CeO2(111) [188]) which decomposes releasing CO2 in
gas phase and leaving behind an oxygen vacancy. This adsorbs an
O2 molecule at the vacancy site. The electron-rich vacancy trans-
fers electrons into O2 and weakens the O–O bond making it react
easily with CO to make a carbonate. This decomposes to release
CO2 in the gas phase and close the catalytic cycle. There is quite
a bit of experimental [121,169,174,190–220] and theoretical
[108,188,221–232] work exploring the possibility that doped oxi-
des are a new class of catalysts in which doping improves the oxi-
dative power of an oxide.
Finally, calculations [104,233] on very small Au clusters sup-
ported on TiO2 show that the oxygen breaks up the gold cluster
to form an ‘‘oxide” (see for example Fig. 5). There is some evidence
that such an oxide is formed on large Au clusters [234]. Moreover,
Anderson’s group found that O2 does shadow the Au clusters in ISS
experiments [38], which means that O2 is adsorbed on top of the
clusters. Such an oxide may cause a shift in the XPS spectrum sim-
ilar to that used to declare that Au is ionic.
4.7. Oxygen adsorption and activation: the role of coadsorption
It seems that in most cases binding and activating the O2 mol-
ecule is the key to CO oxidation. Oxygen is a difﬁcult molecule
for DFT [235]. The binding energies of O2 to Au2 calculated by a
more accurate method (CCSD(T)) [236] do not agree with the ones
produced by DFT. Unfortunately, the large number of electrons in
the system also makes the CCSD(T) results questionable: one is
not sure that the basis set is converged. In addition, the ground
state of O2 is a triplet and the spin conservation rules can play an
important role in controlling its reactivity. The calculations re-
ported here have, with one exception [104], ignored the role of spin
conservation. This does not mean that they are wrong: often the
DFT calculations may pick accidentally a spin-conserving pathway.
It is likely that most of the conclusions we present below are qual-
itatively reliable.
Oxygen does bind to small negatively charged Au clusters in gas
phase [146,153,237,238]. Experiments found that for negatively
charged clusters the bond of the oxygen to the cluster is strong if
the number of Au atoms is even [153]. Calculations have general-
ized this observation and showed that regardless of whether the
cluster is negative or neutral, O2 binds more strongly to small clus-
ters having an odd number of electrons [146].
O2 does not bind to the ﬂat faces of bulk Au [134,239] or to ﬂat
faces of small clusters [146], but it does bind to stepped faces of
bulk Au [134,239] or to small clusters adsorbed on the surface of
bulk Au [145]. The bond of O2 to large Au clusters (Au20 and
Au34) is weak [240–242].
The observation [242–245] that the presence of a Au cluster can
induce O2 to bind more strongly to the oxide has prompted
Chretien and Metiu [147] to examine how the adsorption energy
of O2 on the TiO2 surface is modiﬁed if another species (which they
called a surface modiﬁer) is pre-adsorbed on the surface. They
studied the following modiﬁers: an oxygen vacancy in the bridging
oxygen row, a hydrogen atom bound to a bridging oxygen row (to
68
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
Fig. 5. O2 evolution on a partially reduced rutile TiO2(110) with Au2 preadsorbed on its surface, for the triplet state. The relative energies (DE) are given with respect to O2 in
the gas-phase and Au2 adsorbed at its equilibrium position on a partially reduced TiO2(110) surface. DEact are the activation energies and de the dissociation energies. All
energies are in eV and were calculated with the PW91 functional with a [3  2] supercell and a 12-layer slab (from [104]).
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
69
form a hydroxyl), Na, K, Li, Au1, Au3, Au5. Here are their ﬁndings:
(1) The presence of one of the modiﬁers enumerated above
changes the binding energy of O2 to a 5c-Ti atom on the oxide sur-
face from 0.15 eV to 1.0 eV. (2). The magnitude of the change is
the same for all modiﬁers. (3) When it binds, the oxygen molecule
takes 0.5 electron from the surface regardless of the modiﬁer. (4)
The bond strength of the O2 molecule to a 5c-Ti atom is the same
regardless of the distance between the 5c-Ti atom and the modi-
ﬁer. (5) When the O2 molecule is adsorbed, there is no change in
the charge of the modiﬁer even though O2 becomes negatively
charged.
They proposed the following explanation for these observa-
tions: all modiﬁers they studied donate electrons to the conduction
band, which consists of orbitals localized on the 5c-Ti atoms, hav-
ing equal weight on each atom. These electrons use the empty 2p*
orbitals of the O2 molecule to form the oxygen–oxide bond. The
formation of this bond results in charge donation to the molecule.
Since the electron transfer populates an anti-bonding orbital of O2,
the O–O bond is weakened; as a result, the molecule is more reac-
tive. Prior to O2 adsorption, the electron donated by the modiﬁer
can be on any of the 5c-Ti atoms with equal probability. Because
of this, the O2 molecule can bind equally well to any 5c-Ti atom,
regardless of its distance from the modiﬁer.
They performed several computer experiments to test this
explanation. First, they calculated the binding energy and the
charge of O2 when it binds to a stoichiometric (i.e. no modiﬁer)
TiO2 surface to which they added an electron in the conduction
band. The oxygen bonded to this surface exactly as if there was a
modiﬁer on it. Second, they reasoned that because Au is a very
electronegative atom the pre-adsorption of a modiﬁer should affect
its adsorption in the same way it affected the oxygen binding. They
found this to be true: the strength of the bond of the Au atom to a
5c-Ti atom was increased substantially by the presence of a mod-
iﬁer and so was the charge taken by Au when it bonded to the sur-
face. The magnitude of these effects is the same for each modiﬁer.
Third, they argued that O2 has two degenerate, low-lying, empty
orbitals while Au has only one. Therefore, they expected that hav-
ing two hydroxyls in unit cell or adding two electrons to the stoi-
chiometric TiO2(110) should increase the binding energy of O2 (as
compared to the value when one had one electron or one hydroxyl)
and indeed the binding energy almost doubled. Fourth, they rea-
soned that according to their model doubling the number of
hydroxyls or of the added electrons should have no effect on Au
binding; the calculations showed this to be true.
We emphasize that not all electron-donating modiﬁers change
the binding energy of oxygen and the charge this takes from the
surface by the same amount. An inﬁnite Au strip having nine Au
atoms in the unit cell (referred to as the Au9 strip) changes the
binding energy of O2 to 1.11 eV but it transfers more charge than
the modiﬁers (0.93 versus 0.5). This happens because, unlike the
modiﬁers, the Au9 strip donates additional charge to the conduc-
tion band when the oxygen atom binds to a 5c-Ti atom on the sur-
face. Finally, a strange thing happens when one Au atom is added
on top of the Au9 strip (to turn it into a strip with ten Au atoms
in the unit cell): the binding energy of O2 changes from 1.11 eV
(when the Au9 strip is present) to 1.96 eV. Adding one atom can
make a big difference!
In the language of inorganic chemistry, all modiﬁers act as
Lewis bases and, by donating electrons to the conduction band,
they turn the modiﬁed 5c-Ti atoms on the oxide surface into Lewis
bases. These bind well Lewis acids (such as O2 and Au). This point
of view leads us to hypothesize that the adsorption energy of any
Lewis acid will be enhanced by these modiﬁers. The calculations
also suggest that placing electrons in the conduction band will
cause the oxide to adsorb oxygen and activate it. The catalytic
activity of an oxide nanowire can then be controlled by placing
the nanowire in a FET conﬁguration and using a gate to pull elec-
trons into the wire or push them out of it [246].
Coadsorption leads to another interesting effect, which is easy
to miss if one does not look for it. The Au1, Au2, Au4, and Au6 clus-
ters having the lowest energy do not donate charge to the oxide
when adsorbed on the stoichiometric TiO2(110) surface. According
to the mechanism proposed [147], their presence on the surface
should not affect drastically oxygen adsorption. Calculations show
that they do not. However, these clusters have higher energy iso-
mers that donate electrons to the conduction band when adsorbed
on clean (no adsorbed O2), stoichiometric TiO2(110). Because they
have higher energy, we do not expect to see these isomers on the
clean TiO2 surface. However, the electron-donating isomer, which
has higher energy when bound to the clean TiO2 surface, becomes
the more stable isomer when O2 is present on the surface (on a
5c-Ti site). The presence of oxygen changes which isomer is more
stable. Let us denote by A the isomer that is stable in the absence of
oxygen and by B the charge donating isomer. To change A into B we
need to provide the isomerization energy. However, since B do-
nates charge to the conduction band, this is used by O2 to make
a stronger bond than the one it would have if the isomer A were
on the surface. If this increase in the bond energy is larger than
the isomerization energy, then B is more stable than A in the pres-
ence of oxygen. This is what happens for Au2 and Au4.
A similar observation was made by Wang and Hammer [182] in
their study of Au7 on TiO2(110). A two-dimensional structure of
Au7 has the lowest energy if the surface is stoichiometric, but a
three-dimensional structure is favored if the surface has a hydroxyl
on the bridging oxygen and an oxygen atom bound to the 5c-Ti
(the latter is formed by the dissociation of OH on 5c-Ti to produce
an OH on the bridging oxygen and O on 5c-Ti). Molina, Rasmussen,
and Hammer [242] noticed that CO does not bind to a Au atom ad-
sorbed at an oxygen vacancy site, but it does if O2 is preadsorbed
on the surface. The Au atom at the vacancy site is negatively
charged which disfavors CO adsorption. When O2 is preadsorbed,
it takes some charge away from the Au atom and this makes the
bond of CO to it stronger. Finally, the fact that the structure of a
cluster may change when the reactants are adsorbed was noted
by Hakkinen et al. [28].
4.8. The mechanism of CO oxidation by Au clusters
The reaction mechanism for CO oxidation has been studied
extensively [13,28,31,34–36,140,182,240–245,247–251] and good
recent reviews [31,36,240,249,251] are available. Because of this,
we make only a few remarks.
It is difﬁcult to use theory to determine the mechanism of CO
oxidation for a number of reasons. (1) A cluster can have many
geometries and binding sites that are close in energy and are likely
to coexist on the surface. For example, Au5–Au7 on a stoichiometric
[252] or a reduced [253] TiO2(110) surface each has two isomers
whose structure and position on the surface are rather different,
but whose binding energies are very close. (2) Under the inﬂuence
of coadsorbates, the cluster may change its geometry (see Section
4.7). (3) CO and O2 can have a large number of binding sites. To
determine the reaction mechanism one has to consider all these
sites as a possible starting point. (4) The adsorption of oxygen
and the oxidation of CO is promoted by the presence of water
[252,254] or Na [255] and it is hindered if Cl [255] is present. Oxy-
gen adsorption and activation is affected dramatically [147] by
additives that donate electrons to TiO2 (it has not been determined
whether this is true for the MgO support). In some cases, the
adsorption of O2 on the cluster takes place only if CO is already ad-
sorbed on it [240]. Finally, O2 does not adsorb on stoichiometric
TiO2(110) but it will if certain Au clusters are present on the sur-
face [147,242,243]. (5) Additional complications arise from the
70
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
need to conserve spin, which require studying the reaction mech-
anism for several spin states. Therefore, theory must consider a
very large number of possibilities and it is easy to overlook some
of them. Often several mechanisms may take place simultaneously
and one needs to study all of them. For example [36], Au8 sup-
ported on reduced MgO oxidizes CO through three competing
mechanisms: A Langmuir–Hinshelwood mechanism with CO and
O2 on the cluster, a Langmuir–Hinshelwood mechanism with O2
at the border and CO on the cluster, and a Eley–Rideal mechanism
in which O2 is adsorbed on the cluster and CO from gas phase re-
acts directly with it.
The existing calculations suggest that here is no universal
mechanism that will hold for all clusters regardless of their size
and support. This is not surprising. Small clusters are molecules
and we expect them to change their structure and their chemistry
as we add or remove one atom. We also expect them to be very
sensitive to the nature of the support and react differently when
bound to different sites on the support. The experiments and the
calculations performed so far support this view. There are, how-
ever, some common features. (a) All calculations agree that activat-
ing oxygen is the key to CO oxidation. (b) The presence of low
coordination sites on the cluster is essential (in our opinion, it is
the shape of HOMO that matters, see IV.1). (c) In most cases, the
dissociation of oxygen is not the favored oxidation pathway if
the clusters are sufﬁciently large (i.e. more than 10 atoms). For
small clusters the dissociation of oxygen and its reaction with
the cluster (to make an ‘‘oxide”) are thermodynamically favorable
[104,161]. (d) The calculations show [247,248,256,257] that for Au
clusters supported on rutile the oxidation reaction takes place with
CO on the cluster and O2 adsorbed at the border between oxide and
Au. This was ﬁrst suggested by Haruta [258] who observed that the
activity of an oxidation catalyst seems to be proportional to the
perimeter of the cluster-oxide interface not with the surface. Other
experiments [132,259–261] supported this conjecture. Oxygen
does not bind to Au or to a clean, stoichiometric titania, so one
may wonder how does it get to the interface? Calculations show
that O2 binds to a 5c-Ti atom on the surface when a Au cluster,
or hydroxyls, or oxygen vacancies are present on the surface. From
there it migrates to the border of the cluster.
5. Summary
We can best understand the chemistry of small metal clusters if
we stop thinking of them as tiny pieces of metal and accept that
they are molecules. Moreover, they are radicals because they have
broken bonds. If we view them in this way, it is not surprising that
they are reactive, interact strongly with the support, have a large
number of isomers, their chemical properties change with the
number of atoms they contain, their reactivity is strongly affected
by alloying and their activity is sensitive to additives. Very small
gold clusters are to bulk gold what the radicals of benzene and
naphthalene are to graphite.
We are also learning that active oxides, such as titania, have
unexpected properties. In particular adsorbing some molecules
(which we call modiﬁers) on the surface can affect very strongly
the adsorption energy of other molecules. Theory indicates that
this happens through electron transfer from the modiﬁer to the
conduction band and then from the conduction band to the adsorb-
ing oxygen molecule. Strictly speaking, the Kohn–Sham orbitals
used for this interpretation are not observable quantities. There-
fore, one should regard this mechanism as an explanation of why
the adsorption energy calculated by DFT increases, rather than a
description of reality. To test whether the model describes reality
one should perform experiments that show that the modiﬁers that
put electrons in the conduction band increase the conductivity of
the oxide and that the conductivity does not have an Arrhenius
temperature dependence (which would be indicative of electrons
in the gap rather than in the conduction band). We are not aware
of experiments of this kind.
It is heartening to see that the experiments, in which the cata-
lytic activity of molecular clusters is studied under realistic condi-
tion, are being performed. We are learning that coarsening can be
suppressed, and that molecular clusters can be more active and
more selective than the large clusters made from the same mate-
rial. Ag3 performs the epoxidation of propene while large silver
clusters burn it to CO2 and water; a mixture of Pt8 to P10 is more
active for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane than large Pt clus-
ters; and Au6-Au10 make propene epoxide while supported on alu-
mina (while titania is required if large clusters are used) and
without needing hydrogen.
Acknowledgments
We are grateful for the support from the National Science Foun-
dation, from the Department of Energy, and from the Air Force Of-
ﬁce of Scientiﬁc Research DURINT program and through Grant No.
FAA 9550-06-1-0167.
References
[1] Mattsson TR, Mills G, Metiu H. A new method for simulating the late stages of
island coarsening in thin ﬁlm growth: the role of island diffusion and
evaporation. J Chem Phys 1999;110:12151–60.
[2] Mills G, Mattsson TR, Mollnitz L, Metiu H. Simulations of mobility and
evaporation rate of adsorbate islands on solid surfaces. J Chem Phys
1999;111:8639–50.
[3] Bozso F, Yates Jr JT, Arias J, Metiu H, Martin RM. A surface Penning ionization
study of the CO/Ni(111) system. J Chem Phys 1983;78:4256–69.
[4] Heiz U, Sherwood R, Cox DM, Kaldor A, Yates JT. CO chemisorption on
monodispersed platinum clusters on SiO2 – detection of CO chemisorption on
single platinum atoms. J Phys Chem 1995;99:8730–5.
[5] Heiz U, Vanolli F, Trento L, Schneider WD. Chemical reactivity of size-selected
supported
clusters:
an
experimental
setup.
Rev
Sci
Instrum
1997;68:1986–94.
[6] Heiz U, Vayloyan A, Schumacher E. A new cluster source for the generation of
binary metal clusters. Rev Sci Instrum 1997;68:3718–22.
[7] Vanolli F, Heiz U, Schneider WD. Vibrational coupling of CO adsorbed on
monodispersed Ni11 clusters supported on magnesia. Chem Phys Lett
1997;277:527–31.
[8] Vanolli F, Heiz U, Schneider WD. Thermal chemistry of Mn2(CO)10 deposited
on MgO thin ﬁlms. Surf Sci 1997;377:780–5.
[9] Heiz U. Size-selected, supported clusters: the interaction of carbon monoxide
with nickel clusters. Appl Phys A – Mater Sci Process 1998;67:621–6.
[10] Heiz U, Vanolli F, Sanchez A, Schneider WD. Size-dependent molecular
dissociation on mass-selected, supported metal clusters. J Am Chem Soc
1998;120:9668–71.
[11] Heiz U, Sanchez A, Abbet S, Schneider WD. Catalytic oxidation of carbon
monoxide on monodispersed platinum clusters: each atom counts. J Am
Chem Soc 1999;121:3214–7.
[12] Heiz U, Sanchez A, Abbet S, Schneider WD. The reactivity of gold and
platinum metals in their cluster phase. Eur Phys J D 1999;9:35–9.
[13] Sanchez A, Abbet S, Heiz U, Schneider WD, Hakkinen H, Barnett RN, et al.
When
gold
is
not
noble:
nanoscale
gold
catalysts.
J
Phys
Chem
A
1999;103:9573–8.
[14] Abbet S, Sanchez A, Heiz U, Schneider WD, Ferrari AM, Pacchioni G, et al. Size-
effects in the acetylene cyclotrimerization on supported size-selected Pdn
clusters (1 6 n 6 30). Surf Sci 2000;454:984–9.
[15] Abbet S, Sanchez A, Heiz U, Schneider WD, Ferrari AM, Pacchioni G, et al.
Acetylene
cyclotrimerization
on
supported
size-selected
Pdn
clusters
(1 6 n 6 30): one atom is enough! J Am Chem Soc 2000;122:3453–7.
[16] Ferrari AM, Giordano L, Rosch N, Heiz U, Abbet S, Sanchez A, et al. Role of
surface defects in the activation of supported metals: a quantum-chemical
study
of
acetylene
cyclotrimerization
on
Pd1/MgO.
J
Phys
Chem
B
2000;104:10612–7.
[17] Heiz U, Sanchez A, Abbet S, Schneider WD. Tuning oxidation of carbon
monoxide
using
nanoassembled
model
catalysts.
Chem
Phys
2000;262:189–200.
[18] Heiz U, Schneider WD. Nanoassembled model catalysts. J Phys D – Appl Phys
2000;33:R85–R102.
[19] Abbet S, Heiz U, Ferrari AM, Giordano L, Di Valentin C, Pacchioni G. Nano-
assembled Pd catalysts on MgO thin ﬁlms. Thin Solid Films 2001;400:37–42.
[20] Abbet S, Heiz U, Hakkinen H, Landman U. CO oxidation on a single Pd atom
supported on magnesia. Phys Rev Lett 2001;86:5950–3.
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
71
[21] Abbet S, Sanchez A, Heiz U, Schneider WD. Tuning the selectivity of acetylene
polymerization atom by atom. J Catal 2001;198:122–7.
[22] Heiz U, Abbet S, Hakkinen H, Landman U, Pacchioni G. How different are
mechanisms of chemical reactions on atoms and clusters compared to their
bulk analogs? Abstr Pap Am Chem Soc 2001;222:U198–8.
[23] Heiz U, Schneider WD. Size-selected clusters on solid surfaces. Crit Rev Solid
State Mater Sci 2001;26:251–90.
[24] Abbet S, Ferrari AM, Giordano L, Pacchioni G, Hakkinen H, Landman U, et al.
Pd1/MgO(100): a model system in nanocatalysis. Surf Sci 2002;514:249–55.
[25] Abbet S, Judai K, Klinger L, Heiz U. Synthesis of monodispersed model
catalysts
using
softlanding
cluster
deposition.
Pure
Appl
Chem
2002;74:1527–35.
[26] Ferrari AM, Giordano L, Pacchioni G, Abbet S, Heiz U. Selectivity of surface
defects
for
the
activation
of
supported
metal
atoms:
acetylene
cyclotrimerization on Pd1/MgO. J Phys Chem B 2002;106:3173–81.
[27] Hagen J, Socaciu LD, Elijazyfer M, Heiz U, Bernhardt TM, Woste L.
Coadsorption of CO and O2 on small free gold cluster anions at cryogenic
temperatures: model complexes for catalytic CO oxidation. Phys Chem Chem
Phys 2002;4:1707–9.
[28] Hakkinen H, Abbet W, Sanchez A, Heiz U, Landman U. Structural, electronic,
and
impurity-doping
effects
in
nanoscale
chemistry:
supported
gold
nanoclusters. Angew Chem – Int Ed 2003;42:1297–300.
[29] Judai K, Abbet S, Worz AS, Ferrari AM, Giordano L, Pacchioni G, et al.
Acetylene polymerization on supported transition metal clusters. J Mol Catal
A 2003;199:103–13.
[30] Judai K, Abbet S, Worz AS, Heiz U, Giordano L, Pacchiono G. Interaction of Ag,
Rh, and Pd atoms with MgO thin ﬁlms studied by the CO probe molecule. J
Phys Chem B 2003;107:9377–87.
[31] Heiz U, Bullock EL. Fundamental aspects of catalysis on supported metal
clusters. J Mater Chem 2004;14:564–77.
[32] Worz AS, Judai K, Abbet S, Antonietti JM, Heiz U, Del Vitto A, et al. Chemistry
on single atoms: key factors for the acetylene trimerization on MgO-
supported Rh, Pd, and Ag atoms. Chem Phys Lett 2004;399:266–70.
[33] Judai K, Worz AS, Abbet S, Antonietti JM, Heiz U, Del Vitto A, et al. Acetylene
trimerization on Ag, Pd and Rh atoms deposited on MgO thin ﬂms. Phys Chem
Chem Phys 2005;7:955–62.
[34] Worz AS, Heiz U, Cinquini F, Pacchioni G. Charging of Au atoms on TiO2 thin
ﬁlms from CO vibrational spectroscopy and DFT calculations. J Phys Chem B
2005;109:18418–26.
[35] Yoon B, Hakkinen H, Landman U, Worz AS, Antonietti JM, Abbet S, et al.
Charging effects on bonding and catalyzed oxidation of CO on Au8 clusters on
MgO. Science 2005;307:403–7.
[36] Arenz M, Landman U, Heiz U. CO combustion on supported gold clusters.
ChemPhysChem 2006;7:1871–9.
[37] Fan CY, Wu TP, Kaden WE, Anderson SL. Cluster size effects on hydrazine
decomposition on Irn/Al2O3/NiAl(110). Surf Sci 2006;600:461–7.
[38] Lee S, Fan CY, Wu TP, Anderson SL. Cluster size effects on CO oxidation
activity, adsorbate afﬁnity, and temporal behavior of model Aun/TiO2
catalysts. J Chem Phys 2005;123. art. no. 124710.
[39] Lee S, Fan CY, Wu TP, Anderson SL. Agglomeration, support effects, and CO
adsorption on Au/TiO2(110) prepared by ion beam deposition. Surf Sci
2005;578:5–19.
[40] Lee S, Fan CY, Wu TP, Anderson SL. Agglomeration, sputtering, and carbon
monoxide adsorption behavior for Au/Al2O3 prepared by Aun(+) deposition on
Al2O3/NiAl(110). J Phys Chem B 2005;109:11340–7.
[41] Lee S, Fan C, Wu T, Anderson SL. Hydrazine decomposition over Irn/Al2O3
model catalysts prepared by size-selected cluster deposition. J Phys Chem B
2005;109:381–8.
[42] Lee S, Fan C, Tainpin W, Anderson SL. CO oxidation on Aun/TiO2 catalysts
produced
by
size-selected
cluster
deposition.
J
Am
Chem
Soc
2004;126:5682–3.
[43] Aizawa M, Lee S, Anderson SL. Deposition dynamics and chemical properties
of size-selected Ir clusters on TiO2. Surf Sci 2003;542:253–75.
[44] Aizawa M, Lee S, Anderson SL. Sintering, oxidation, and chemical properties of
size-selected nickel clusters on TiO2(110). J Chem Phys 2002;117:5001–11.
[45] Kemper P, Kolmakov A, Tong X, Lilach Y, Benz L, Manard M, et al. Formation,
deposition and examination of size selected metal clusters on semiconductor
surfaces: an experimental setup. Int J Mass Spectrom 2006;254:202–9.
[46] Buratto SK, Bowers MT, Metiu H, Manard M, Tong X, Benz L, et al. Aun and Agn
(n = 1–8) nanocluster catalysts: gas phase reactivity to deposited structures.
In: Woodruff DP, editor. The Chemical Physics of Solid Surfaces, vol. 12. New
York: Elsevier; 2006. p. 151–99.
[47] Benz L, Tong X, Kemper P, Metiu H, Bowers MT, Buratto SK. Pinning
mononuclear Au on the surface of titania. J Phys Chem B 2006;110:663–6.
[48] Tong X, Benz L, Kolmakov A, Chrétien S, Metiu H, Buratto SK. The nucleation
sites of Ag clusters grown by vapor deposition on a TiO2(110)  1  1
surface. Surf Sci 2005;575:60–8.
[49] Tong X, Benz L, Kemper P, Metiu H, Bowers MT, Buratto SK. Intact size-
selected Aun clusters on a TiO2(110)  (1  1) surface at room temperature. J
Am Chem Soc 2005;127:13516–8.
[50] Tong X, Benz L, Chrétien S, Kemper P, Kolmakov A, Metiu H, et al. Pinning
mass-selected Agn clusters on the TiO2(110)  1  1 surface via deposition at
high kinetic energy. J Chem Phys 2005;123. art. no. 204701.
[51] Benz L, Tong X, Kemper P, Lilach Y, Kolmakov A, Metiu H, et al. Landing of
size-selected Agþ
n clusters on single crystal TiO2(110)  (1  1) surfaces at
room temperature. J Chem Phys 2005;122. art. no. 081102.
[52] Aubin LB, Tong X, Kemper PR, Lilach Y, Kolmakov A, Metiu H, et al. Scanning
tunneling microscopy of mass-selected Ag clusters on titania. Abstr Pap Am
Chem Soc 2004;227:U850–0.
[53] Winans RE, Vajda S, Ballentine GE, Elam JW, Lee B, Pelling MJ, et al. Reactivity
of supported platinum nanoclusters by in situ GISAXS: cluster stability under
hydrogen. Top Catal 2006;39:145–9.
[54] Vajda S, Pellin MJ, Curtiss LA, Marshall CL, Elam JW, Greeley JP, et al.
Presentation at the 2008 AFOSR meeting and private communication.
[55] Metiu H, DePristo AE. Surface damage caused by bombardment with low
energy (10–30 eV) argon. J Chem Phys 1989;91:2735–42.
[56] Matthey D, Wang JG, Wendt S, Matthiesen J, Schaub R, Laesgsgaard E, et al.
Enhanced bonding of Au nanoparticles on oxidized TiO2(110). Science
2007;315:1692–6.
[57] Besenbacher F, Lauritsen JV, Wendt S. STM studies of model catalysts. Nano
Today 2007;2:30–9.
[58] Lauritsen JV, Besenbacher F. Model catalyst surfaces investigated by scanning
tunneling microscopy. Adv Catal 2006;50:97–147.
[59] Wahlstrom E, Lopez N, Schaub R, Thostrup P, Ronnau A, Africh C, et al.
Bonding of gold nanoclusters to oxygen vacancies on rutile TiO2(110). Phys
Rev Lett 2003;90.
[60] Nilius N, Ganduglia-Pirovano MV, Brazdova V, Kulawik M, Sauer J, Freund HJ.
Counting electrons transferred through a thin alumina ﬁlm into Au chains.
Phys Rev Lett 2008;100. art. no. 096802.
[61] Baron M, Stacchiola D, Ulrich S, Nilius N, Shaikhutdinov S, Freund HJ, et al.
Adsorption of Au and Pd atoms on thin SiO2 ﬁlms: the role of atomic
structure. J Phys Chem C 2008;112:3405–9.
[62] Sterrer M, Risse T, Pozzoni UM, Giordano L, Heyde M, Rust HP, et al. Control of
the charge state of metal atoms on thin MgO ﬁlms. Phys Rev Lett 2007;98. art.
no. 096107.
[63] Sterrer M, Risse T, Heyde M, Rust HP, Freund HJ. Crossover from three-
dimensional to two-dimensional geometries of Au nanostructures on thin
MgO(001) ﬁlms: a conﬁrmation of theoretical predictions. Phys Rev Lett
2007;98. art. no. 206103.
[64] Benia HM, Lin X, Gao HJ, Nilius N, Freund HJ. Nucleation and growth of gold
on MgO thin ﬁlms: a combined STM and luminescence study. J Phys Chem C
2007;111:10528–33.
[65] Yulikov M, Sterrer M, Heyde M, Rust HP, Risse T, Freund HJ, et al. Binding of
single gold atoms on thin MgO(001) ﬁlms. Phys Rev Lett 2006;96. art. no.
146804.
[66] Sterrer M, Yulikov M, Fischbach E, Heyde M, Rust HP, Pacchioni G, et al.
Interaction of gold clusters with color centers on MgO(001) ﬁlms. Angew
Chem – Int Ed 2006;45:2630–2.
[67] Freund HJ. Models for oxidation catalyst: characterization and reaction at the
atomic level. Catal Today 2006;117:6–14.
[68] Starr DE, Shaikhutdinov SK, Freund HJ. Gold supported on oxide surfaces:
environmental effects as studied by STM. Top Catal 2005;36:33–41.
[69] Nilius N, Rienks EDL, Rust H-P, Freund H-J. Self-organization of gold atoms on
a polar FeO(111) surface. Phys Rev Lett 2005;95. art. no. 066101.
[70] Meyer R, Lemire C, Shaikhutdinor SK, Freund H-J. Surface chemistry of
catalysis by gold. Gold Bull 2004;37:72–124.
[71] Diebold U. The surface science of TiO2. Surf Sci Rep 2004;43:53–229.
[72] Enevoldsen GH, Foster AS, Christensen MC, Lauritsen JV, Besenbacher F.
Noncontact atomic force microscopy studies of vacancies and hydroxyls of
TiO2(110): experiments and atomistic simulations. Phys Rev B 2007;76. art.
no. 205415.
[73] Wendt S, Schaub R, Matthiesen J, Vestergaard EK, Wahlstrom E, Rasmussen
MD, et al. Oxygen vacancies on TiO2(110) and their interaction with H2O and
O2: a combined high-resolution STM and DFT study. Surf Sci 2005;598:
226–45.
[74] Wahlstrom
E,
Vestergaard
EK,
Schaub
R,
Ronnau
A,
Vestergaard
M,
Laegsgaard
E,
et
al.
Electron
transfer-induced
dynamics
of
oxygen
molecules on the TiO2(110) surface. Science 2004;303:511–3.
[75] Sterrer M, Heyde M, Novicki M, Nilius N, Risse T, Rust HP, et al. Identiﬁcation
of color centers on MgO(001) thin ﬁlms with scanning tunneling microscopy.
J Phys Chem B 2006;110:46–9.
[76] Schmid M, Shishkin M, Kresse G, Napetschnig E, Varga P, Kulawik M, et al.
Oxygen-deﬁcient line defects in an ultrathin aluminum oxide ﬁlm. Phys Rev
Lett 2006;97. art. no. 046101.
[77] Lu JL, Gao HJ, Shaikhutdinov S, Freund HJ. Morphology and defect structure of
the CeO2(111) ﬁlms grown on Ru(0001) as studied by scanning tunneling
microscopy. Surf Sci 2006;600:5004–10.
[78] Heyde M, Sterrer M, Rust HP, Freund HJ. Frequency modulated atomic force
microscopy
on
MgO(001)
thin
ﬁlms:
interpretation
of
atomic
image
resolution
and
distance
dependence
of
tip-sample
interaction.
Nanotechnology 2006;17:S101–6.
[79] Heyde M, Simon GH, Rust HP, Freund HJ. Probing adsorption sites on thin
oxide ﬁlms by dynamic force microscopy. Appl Phys Lett 2006;89.
[80] Fierro-Gonzalez JC, Kuba S, Hao YL, Gates BC. Oxide- and zeolite-supported
molecular metal complexes and clusters: physical characterization and
determination of structure, bonding, and metal oxidation state. J Phys
Chem B 2006;110:13326–51.
[81] Guzman J, Gates BC. Supported molecular catalysts: metal complexes and
clusters on oxides and zeolites. Dalton Trans 2003:3303–18.
[82] Gates BC. Oxide- and zeolite-supported ‘molecular’ metal clusters: synthesis,
structure, bonding, and catalytic properties. In: Coperet C, Chaudret B,
editors. Topics in organometallic chemistry, vol. 16; 2005. p. 211–31.
72
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
[83] Gates BC. Supported metal cluster catalysts. In: Ertl G, Knözinger H, Schüth F,
Weitkamp J, editors. Handbook of heterogeneous catalysis, 2nd ed., vol.
3. Weinheim: Verlag Chemie; 2008. p. 1277–85.
[84] Sterrer M, Risse T, Giordano L, Heyde M, Nilius N, Rust HP, et al. Palladium
monomers,
dimers,
and
trimers
on
the
MgO(001)
surface
viewed
individually. Angew Chem – Int Ed 2007;46:8703–6.
[85] Valentin CD, Scagnelli A, Pacchioni G, Risse T, Freund H-J. EPR properties of Au
atoms adsorbed on various sites of the MgO(100) surface from relativistic
DFT calculations. Surf Sci 2006;600:2434–42.
[86] Sterrer M, Yulikov M, Risse T, Freund HJ, Carrasco J, Illas F, et al. When the
reporter induces the effect: unusual IR spectra of CO on Au1/MgO(001)/
Mo(001). Angew Chem – Int Ed 2006;45:2633–5.
[87] Nilius N, Kulawik M, Rust HP, Freund HJ. Quantization of electronic states in
individual oxide-supported silver particles (vol. 572, p. 347, 2004). Surf Sci
2006;600:3522–3.
[88] Crommie MF, Lutz CP, Eigler DM. Spectroscopy of a single adsorbed atom.
Phys Rev B 1993;48:2851–4.
[89] Crommie MF, Lutz CP, Eigler DM. Conﬁnement of electrons to quantum
corrals on a metal surface. Science 1993;262:218–20.
[90] Bartels L, Meyer G, Rieder KH. Basic steps of lateral manipulation of single
atoms and diatomic clusters with a scanning tunneling microscope tip. Phys
Rev Lett 1997;79:697–700.
[91] Nilius N, Wallis TM, Ho W. Inﬂuence of a heterogeneous Al2O3 surface on the
electronic properties of single Pd atoms. Phys Rev Lett 2003;90. art. no.
046808.
[92] Hirjibehedin CF, Lutz CP, Heinrich AJ. Spin coupling in engineered atomic
structures. Science 2006;312:1021–4.
[93] Kulawik M, Nilius N, Freund H-J. Inﬂuence of the metal substrate on the
adsorption properties of thin oxide layers: Au atoms on a thin alumina ﬁlm
on NiAl(110). Phys Rev Lett 2006;96. art. no. 036103.
[94] Pacchioni G. Modeling doped and defective oxides in catalysis with density
functional theory methods: room for improvements. J Chem Phys 2008;128.
art. no. 182505.
[95] Ganduglia-Pirovano MV, Hoffmann A, Sauer J. Oxygen vacancies in transition
metal and rare earth oxides: current state of understanding and remaining
challenges. Surf Sci Rep 2007;62:219–70.
[96] Rasmussen
MD,
Molina
LM,
Hammer
B.
Adsorption,
diffusion,
and
dissociation
of
molecular
oxygen
at
defected
TiO2(110):
a
density
functional theory study. J Chem Phys 2004;120:988–97.
[97] Wu XY, Selloni A, Lazzeri M, Nayak SK. Oxygen vacancy mediated adsorption
and reactions of molecular oxygen on the TiO2(110) surface. Phys Rev B
2003;68. art. no. 241402.
[98] Tilocca A, Selloni A. O2 and vacancy diffusion on rutile (110) pathway and
electronic properties. ChemPhysChem 2005;6:1911–6.
[99] Wang Y, Pillay D, Hwang GS. Dynamics of oxygen species on reduced
TiO2(110) rutile. Phys Rev B 2004;70. art. no. 193410.
[100] Henderson MA, Epling WS, Perkins CL, Peden CHF, Diebold U. Interaction of
molecular oxygen with the vacuum-annealed TiO2(110) surface. Molecular
and dissociative channels. J Phys Chem B 1999;103:5328–37.
[101] Epling WS, Peden CHF, Henderson MA, Diebold U. Evidence for oxygen
adatoms on TiO2(110) resulting from O2 dissociation at vacancy sites. Surf Sci
1998;412–413:333–43.
[102] Matthey D, Wang JG, Wendt S, Matthiesen J, Schaub R, Laegsgaard E, et al.
Enhanced bonding of gold nanoparticles on oxidized TiO2(110). Science
2007;315:1692–6.
[103] Du Y, Dohnalek Z, Lyubinetsky I. Transient mobility of oxygen adatoms
upon O2 dissociation on reduced TiO2(110). J Phys Chem C 2008;112:
2649–53.
[104] Chrétien S, Metiu H. O2 evolution on a clean partially reduced rutile
TiO2(110) surface and on the same surface precovered with Au1 and Au2:
the importance of spin conservation. J Chem Phys [in press].
[105] Behler J, Delley B, Lorenz B, Reuter K, Schefﬂer M. Dissociation of O2 at
Al(111): the role of spin selection rules. Phys Rev Lett 2005;94. art. no.
036104.
[106] Behler J, Delley B, Reuter K, Schefﬂer M. Nonadiabatic potential-energy
surfaces by constrained density-functional theory. Phys Rev B 2007;75. art.
no. 115409.
[107] Rozanska X, Fortrie R, Sauer J. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane by
monomeric vanadium oxide sites on silica support. J Phys Chem C
2007;111:6041–50.
[108] Kim HY, Pala RGS, Shapovalov V, Lee HM, Metiu H. CO oxidation by rutile
doped with high valence dopants: the role of spin. J Phys Chem B [in press].
[109] Harvey JN, Poli R. Computational study of the spin-forbidden H2 oxidative
addition to 16-electron Fe(0) complexes. Dalton Trans 2003:4100–6.
[110] Harvey JN. DFT computation of relative spin-state energetics of transition
metal compounds. In: Principles and applications of density functional
theory in inorganic chemistry I, vol. 112; 2004. p. 151–83.
[111] Carreon-Macedo
JL,
Harvey
JN.
Do
spin
state
changes
matter
in
organometallic
chemistry?
A
computational
study.
J
Am
Chem
Soc
2004;126:5789–97.
[112] Claeyssens F, Harvey JN, Manby FR, Mata RA, Mulholland AJ, Ranaghan KE,
et al. High-accuracy computation of reaction barriers in enzymes. Angew
Chem – Int Ed 2006;45:6856–9.
[113] McGillen MR, Percival CJ, Shalleross DE, Harvey JN. Is hydrogen abstraction an
important pathway in the reaction of alkenes with the OH radical? Phys
Chem Chem Phys 2007;9:4349–56.
[114] Harvey JN, Aschi M. Modelling spin-forbidden reactions: recombination of
carbon monoxide with iron tetracarbonyl. Faraday Discuss 2003;124:
129–43.
[115] Rudic S, Murray C, Harvey JN, Orr-Ewing AJ. On-the-ﬂy ab initio trajectory
calculations of the dynamics of Cl atom reactions with methane, ethane and
methanol.. J Chem Phys 2004;120:186–98.
[116] Harvey JN. Spin-forbidden CO ligand recombination in myoglobin. Faraday
Discuss 2004;127:165–77.
[117] Strickland N, Harvey JN. Spin-forbidden ligand binding to the ferrous-heme
group: ab initio and DFT studies. J Phys Chem B 2007;111:841–52.
[118] Harvey JN, Poli R. Spin-forbidden reactions in organometallic chemistry: how
fast do they really go? ACS Abstr 2003;226:U433–3.
[119] Harvey JN. Understanding the kinetics of spin-forbidden chemical reactions.
Phys Chem Chem Phys 2007;9:331–43.
[120] Harvey JN, Poli R, Smith KM. Understanding the reactivity of transition metal
complexes involving multiple spin states. Coord Chem Rev 2003;238:
347–61.
[121] Olson RM, Varganov S, Gordon MS, Metiu H, Chretien S, Piecuch P, et al.
Where does the planar-to-nonplanar turnover occur in small gold clusters? J
Am Chem Soc 2005;127:1049–52.
[122] Han Y-K. Structure of Au8: planar or nonplanar. J Chem Phys 2006;124. art.
no. 024316.
[123] Olson RM, Gordon MS. Isomers of Au8. J Chem Phys 2007;126. art. no.
214310.
[124] Diefenbach M, Kim KS. Spatial structure of Au8: importance of basis set
completness and geometry relaxation. J Phys Chem B 2006;110:21639–42.
[125] Hutchings GJ, Haruta M. A golden age of catalysis: a perspective. Appl Catal
A 2005;291:2–5.
[126] Hutchings GJ. Catalysis by gold. Catal Today 2005;100:55–61.
[127] Haruta M. Gold as a novel catalyst in 21st century: preparation, working
mechanism, applications. Gold Bull 2004;37:27–36.
[128] Haruta A. When gold is not noble: catalysis by nanoparticles. Chem Rec
2003;3:75–87.
[129] Haruta H, Date M. Advances in the catalysis of Au nanoparticles. Appl Catal A
2001;222:427–37.
[130] Bond GC, Thompson DT. Status of catalysis by gold following an AURICAT
workshop. Appl Catal A 2006;302:1–4.
[131] Bond GC. Gold: a relatively new catalyst. Catal Today 2002;72:5–9.
[132] Bond GC, Thomson DT. Catalysis by gold. Catal Rev Sci Eng 1999;41:319–88.
[133] Min BK, Friend CM. Heterogeneous gold-based catalysis for green chemistry:
low-temperature
CO
oxidation
and
propene
oxidation.
Chem.
Rev.
2007;107:2709–24.
[134] Mavrikakis M, Stoltze P, Nørskov JK. Making gold less noble. Catal Lett
2000;64:101–6.
[135] Lopez N, Nørskov JK. Theoretical study of the Au/TiO2(110) interface. Surf Sci
2002;515:175–86.
[136] Lopez N, Nørskov JK. Catalytic CO oxidation by a gold nanoparticle: A Density
Functional study. J Am Chem Soc 2002;124:11262–3.
[137] Lemire C, Meyer R, Shaikhutdinov SK, Freund HJ. CO adsorption on oxide
supported gold: from small clusters to monolayer islands and three-
dimensional nanoparticles. Surf Sci 2004;552:27–34.
[138] Lemire C, Meyer R, Shaikhutdino S, Freund H-J. Do quantum size effects
control
CO
adsorption
on
gold
nanoparticles?
Ang
Chem
Int
Ed
2004;43:118–21.
[139] Shaikhutdinov SK, Meyer R, Naschitzki M, Baumer M, Freund HJ. Size and
support effects for CO adsorption on gold model catalysts. Catal Lett
2003;86:211–9.
[140] Lopez N, Janssens TVW, Clausen BS, Xu Y, Mavrikakis M, Bligaard T, et al. On
the origin of the catalytic activity of gold nanoparticles for low-temperature
CO oxidation. J Catal 2004;223:232–5.
[141] Janssens TVW, Carlsson A, Puig-Molina A, Clausen BS. Relation between
nanoscale Au particle structure and activity for CO oxidation on supported
gold catalysts. J Catal 2006;240:108–13.
[142] Chrétien S, Gordon MS, Metiu H. Binding of propene on small gold clusters
and on Au(111): simple rules for binding sites and relative binding energies.
J Chem Phys 2004;121:3756–66.
[143] Chrétien S, Gordon MS, Metiu H. Density functional study of the adsorption of
propene on mixed gold-silver clusters, AunAgm: propensity rules for binding. J
Chem Phys 2004;121:9931–7.
[144] Chrétien S, Gordon MS, Metiu H. Density functional study of the adsorption of
propene
on
silver
clusters,
Agq
m
(m = 1–5;
q = 0,
+1).
J
Chem
Phys
2004;121:9925–30.
[145] Mills G, Gordon MS, Metiu H. Oxygen adsorption on Au clusters and a rough
Au(111) surface. The role of surface ﬂatness, electron conﬁnement, excess
electrons, and band gap. J Chem Phys 2003;118:4198–205.
[146] Mills G, Gordon MS, Metiu H. The adsorption of molecular oxygen on neutral
and negative Aun clusters (n = 2–5). Chem Phys Lett 2002;359:493–9.
[147] Chrétien S, Metiu H. Enhanced adsorption energy of Au1 and O2 on the
stoichiometric TiO2(110) surface by co-adsorption with other molecules. J
Chem Phys 2008;128. art. no. 044714.
[148] Valden M, Lai X, Goodman DW. Onset of catalytic activity of gold clusters on
titania
with
the
appearance
of
nonmetallic
properties.
Science
1998;281:1647–50.
[149] Lai X, St Clair TP, Valden M, Goodman DW. Scanning tunneling microscopy
studies of metal clusters supported on TiO2(110): morphology and electronic
structure. Progr Surf Sci 1998;59:25–52.
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
73
[150] Lai XF, Goodman DW. Structure-reactivity correlations for oxide-supported
metal catalysts: new perspectives from STM. J Mol Catal A 2000;162:
33–50.
[151] Yang Z, Wu R, Goodman DW. Structural and electronic properties of Au on
TiO2(110). Phys Rev B 2000;61:14066–71.
[152] Calla JT, Davis RJ. Oxygen-exchange reactions during CO oxidation over
titania-
and
alumina-supported
Au
nanoparticles.
J
Catal
2006;241:
407–16.
[153] Salisbury BE, Wallace WT, Wetten RL. Low-temperature activation of
molecular oxygen by gold clusters: a stoichiometric process correlated to
electron afﬁnity. Chem Phys 2000;262:131–41.
[154] Chrétien S, Metiu H. Density functional study of the charge on Aun clusters
(n = 1–7) supported on a partially reduced rutile TiO2(110): are all clusters
negatively charged? J Chem Phys 2007;126. art. no. 104701.
[155] Molina LM, Rasmussen MD, and Hammer B. Erratum: adsorption of O2 and
oxidation of CO at Au nanoparticles supported by TiO2(110) (vol. 120, p.
7673, 2004). J Chem Phys 2005;123 (art. no. 029903).
[156] Chen MS, Goodman DW. The structure of catalytically active gold on titania.
Science 2004;306:252–5.
[157] Choudhary TV, Goodman DW. Catalytically active gold: the role of cluster
morphology. Appl Catal A 2005;291:32–6.
[158] Goodman DW. ‘‘Catalytically active Au on titania”: yet another example of a
strong metal support interaction (SMSI)? Catal Lett 2005;99:1–4.
[159] Yan Z, Chinta S, Mohamed AA, Fackler JP, Goodman DW. The role of F-centers
in catalysis by Au supported on MgO. J Am Chem Soc 2005;127:1604–5.
[160] Chen M, Cai Y, Yan Z, Goodman DW. On the origin of the unique properties of
supported Au nanoparticles. J Am Chem Soc 2006;128:6341–6.
[161] Chrétien S, Metiu H, unpublished.
[162] Fu Q, Saltsburg H, Flytzani-Stephanopoulos M. Active nonmetallic Au and Pt
species on ceria-based water-gas shift catalysts. Science 2003;301:935–8.
[163] Deng W, De Jesus J, Saltsburg H, Flytzani-Stephanopoulos M. Low-content
gold-ceria catalysts for the water–gas shift and preferential CO oxidation
reactions. Appl Catal A 2005;291:126–35.
[164] Fu Q, Deng W, Saltsburg H, Flytzani-Stephanopoulos M. Activity and stability
of low-content gold–cerium oxide catalysts for the water–gas shift reaction.
Appl Catal B 2005;56:57–68.
[165] Deng WL, Flytzani-Stephanopoulos M. On the issue of the deactivation of Au-
ceria and Pt-ceria water–gas-shift catalysis in practical fuel cell applications.
Angew Chem – Int Ed 2006;45:2285–9.
[166] Guzman J, Carrettin S, Corma A. Spectroscopic evidence for the supply of
reactive oxygen during CO oxidation catalyzed by gold supported on
nanocrystalline CeO2. J Am Chem Soc 2005;127:3286–7.
[167] Venezia AM, Pantaleo G, Longo A, Di Carlo G, Casaletto MP, Liotta FL, et al.
Relationship between the structure and CO oxidation on ceria-supported
gold catalysts. J Phys Chem B 2005;109:2821–7.
[168] Carrettin S, Corma A, Iglesias M, Sanchez F. Stabilization of Au(III) on
heterogeneous catalysts and their catalytic similarities with homogeneous
Au(III) metal organic complexes. Appl Catal A 2005;291:247–52.
[169] Calla JT, Davis RJ. Investigation of alumina-supported Au catalyst for CO
oxidation by isotopic transient analysis and X-ray absorption spectroscopy. J
Phys Chem B 2005;109:2307–14.
[170] Fierro-Gonzalez JC, Guzman J, Gates BC. Role of cationic gold in supported CO
oxidation catalysts. Top Catal 2007;44:103–14.
[171] Fierro-Gonzalez JC, Gates BC. Evidence of active species in CO oxidation
catalyzed by highly dispersed supported gold. Catal Today 2007;122:201–10.
[172] Finch RW, Hodge NA, Hutchings GJ, Meagher A, Pankhurst QA, Siddiqui MRH,
et al. Identiﬁcation of active phases in Au–Fe catalysts for low-temperature
CO oxidation. Phys Chem Chem Phys 1999;1:485–9.
[173] Hodge NA, Kiely CJ, Whyman R, Siddiqui MRH, Hutchings GJ, Pankhurst QA,
et al. Microstructural comparison of calcined and uncalcined gold/iron-oxide
catalysts for low-temperature CO oxidation. Catal Today 2002;72:133–44.
[174] Bera P, Hegde MS. Characterization and catalytic properties of combustion
synthesized Au/CeO2 catalyst. Catal Lett 2002;79:75–81.
[175] Bera P, Priolkar KR, Sarode PR, Hegde MS, Emura S, Kumashiro R, et al.
Structural investigation of combustion synthesized Cu/CeO2 catalysts by
EXAFS and other physical techniques: formation of a Ce1xCuxO2d solid
solution. Chem Mater 2002;14:3591–601.
[176] Kung HH, Kung MC, Costello CK. Supported Au catalysts for low-temperature
CO oxidation. J Catal 2003;216:425–32.
[177] Guzman J, Gates BC. Catalysis by supported gold: correlation between
catalytic activity for CO oxidation and oxidation states of gold. J Am Chem Soc
2004;126:2672–3.
[178] Costello CK, Guzman J, Yang JH, Wang YM, Kung MC, Gates BC, et al.
Activation of Au/c-Al2O3 catalysts for CO oxidation: characterization by X-ray
absorption near edge structure and temperature programmed reduction. J
Phys Chem B 2004;108:12529–36.
[179] Carrettin S, Concepcion P, Corma A, Nieto JML, Puntes VF. Nanocrystalline
CeO2 increases the activity of an for CO oxidation by two orders of
magnitude. Angew Chem – Int Ed 2004;43:2538–40.
[180] Concepcion P, Carrettin S, Corma A. Stabilization of cationic gold species on
Au/CeO2 catalysts under working conditions. Appl Catal A 2006;307:42–5.
[181] Fierro-Gonazales JC, Gates BC. Mononuclear AuIII and AuI complexes bonded
to Zeolite NaY: catalysts for CO oxidation at 298 K. J Phys Chem B
2004;108:16999–7002.
[182] Wang JG, Hammer B. Role of Au+ in supporting and activating Au7 on
TiO2(110). Phys Rev Lett 2006;97. art. no. 136107.
[183] Boccuzzi F, Chiorino A, Manzoli M, Lu P, Akita T, Ichikawa S, et al. Au/TiO2
nanosized samples: a catalytic, TEM, and FTIR study of the effect of
calcination temperature on the CO oxidation. J Catal 2001;202:256–67.
[184] Schumacher B, Denkwitz Y, Plzak V, Kinne M, Behm RJ. Kinetics, mechanism,
and the inﬂuence of H2 on the CO oxidation reaction on a Au/TiO2 catalyst. J
Catal 2004;224:449–62.
[185] Venkov T, Fajerwerg K, Delannoy L, Klimev H, Hadjiivanov K, Louis C. Effect of
the activation temperature on the state of gold supported on titania: an FT-IR
spectroscopic study. Appl Catal A 2006;301:106–14.
[186] Huber H, McIntosh D, Ozin GA. A metal atom model for the oxidation of
carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide. The gold atom–carbon monoxide–
dioxygen reaction and the gold atom–carbon dioxide reaction. Inorg Chem
1977;16:975–9.
[187] Chrétien S, Metiu H. CO oxidation catalyzed by small Au clusters supported
on rutile [in preparation].
[188] Shapovalov V, Metiu H. Catalysis by doped oxides: CO oxidation by
AuxCe1xO2. J Catal 2007;245:205–14.
[189] Pala RGS, Metiu H. Modiﬁcation of the oxidative power of ZnOð10 
10Þ surface
by substituting some surface Zn atoms with other metals. J Phys Chem C
2007;111:8617–22.
[190] Cimino A, Bosco R, Indovina V, Schiavello M. Decomposition of nitrous oxide
upon nickel
oxide–magnesium
oxide solid
solutions. J
Catal 1966;5:
271–8.
[191] Cimino A, Sciavello M, Stone FS. Oxygen chemisorption and the catalysis of
N2O decomposition on NiO–MgO and related solid solutions. Discuss Farad
Soc 1966;41:350–61.
[192] Nishihata Y, Mizuki J, Akao T, Tanaka H, Uenishi M, Kimura M, et al. Self-
regeneration of a Pd-perovskite catalyst for automotive emissions control.
Nature 2002;418:164–7.
[193] Tanaka H, Mizuno N, Misono M. Catalytic activity and structural stability of
La0.9Ce0.1Co1xFexO3 perovskite catalysts for automotive emissions control.
Appl Catal A 2003;244:371–82.
[194] Tanaka H, Tan I, Uenishi M, Kimura M, Dohmae K. Regeneration of palladium
subsequent to solid solution and segregation in a perovskite catalyst: an
intelligent catalyst. Top Catal 2001;16/17:63–70.
[195] Tanaka H, Taniguchi M, Kajita N, Uenishi M, Tan I, Sato N, et al. Design of the
intelligent catalyst for Japan ULEV standard. Top Catal 2004;30/31:389–96.
[196] Baidya T, Gayen A, Hegde MS, Ravishankar N, Dupont L. Enhanced
reducibility of Ce1xTixO2 compared to that of CeO2 and higher redox
catalytic activity of Ce1xyTixPtyO2d compared to that of Ce1xPtxO2d. J
Phys Chem B 2006;110:5262–72.
[197] Bera P, Malwadkarb S, Gayena A, Satyanarayanab CVV, Raob BS, Hegde MS.
Low-temperature water gas shift reaction on combustion synthesized
Ce1xPtxO2. Catal Lett 2004;96:213–9.
[198] Bera P, Gayen A, Hegde MS, Lalla NP, Spadaro L, Frusteri F, et al. Promoting
effect of CeO2 in combustion synthesized Pt/CeO2 catalyst for CO oxidation. J
Phys Chem B 2003;107:6122–30.
[199] Perez-Alonso FJ, Melian-Cabrera I, Loper Granados M, Kapteijs F, Fierro JLG.
Synergy of FexCe1xO2 mixed oxides for N2O decomposition. J Catal
2006;239:340–6.
[200] Nguyen TB, Deloume JP, Perrichon V. Study of the redox behaviour of high
surface area CeO2–SnO2 solid solutions. Appl Catal A 2003;249:273–84.
[201] Nagaveni K, Hegde MS, Madras G. Structure and photocatalytic activity of
Ti1xMxO2±d (M = W, V, Ce, Zr, Fe, and Cu) synthesized by solution combustion
method. J Phys Chem B 2004;108:20204–12.
[202] Shan W, Feng Z, Li Z, Zhang J, Shen W, Li C. Oxidative steam reforming of
methanol on Ce0.9Cu0.1OY catalysts prepared by deposition–precipitation,
coprecipitation,
and
complexation–combustion
methods.
J
Catal
2004;228:206–17.
[203] Wilkes MF, Hayden P, Bhattacharya AK. Catalytic studies on ceria lanthana
solid
solutions
II.
Oxidation
of
carbon
monoxide.
J
Catal
2003;219:
295–304.
[204] Zamora M, Lopez T, Gomez R, Asomoza M, Melendez R. Oligomerization of
acetone over titania-doped catalysts (Li, Na, K and Cs): effect of the alkaline
metal in activity and selectivity. Catal Today 2005;107–108:289–93.
[205] Pino L, Recupero V, Benianati S, Shukla AK, Hegde MS, Bera P. Catalytic
partial-oxidation of methane on a ceria-supported platinum catalyst for
application in fuel cell electric vehicles. Appl Catal A 2002;225:63–75.
[206] Driscoll DJ, Lunsford JH. Gas-phase radical formation during the reactions of
methane, ethane, ethylene, and propylene over selected oxide catalysts. J
Phys Chem 1985;89:4415–8.
[207] Ito T, Lunsford JH. Synthesis of ethylene and ethane by partial oxidation of
methane over lithium-doped magnesium-oxide. Nature 1985;314:721–2.
[208] Ito T, Wang JX, Lin CH, Lunsford JH. Oxidative dimerization of methane over a
lithium-promoted
magnesium-oxide
catalyst.
J
Am
Chem
Soc
1985;107:5062–8.
[209] Lunsford JH. The catalytic conversion of methane to higher hydrocarbons.
Catal Today 1990;6:235–59.
[210] Lunsford JH. Catalytic conversion of methane to more useful chemicals and
fuels: a challenge for the 21st century. Catal Today 2000;63:165–74.
[211] Shi C, Hatano M, Lunsford JH. A kinetic model for the oxidative coupling of
methane over Li+/MgO catalysts. Catal Today 1992;13:191–9.
[212] Buyevskaya OV, Wolf D, Baerns M. Ethylene and propene by oxidative
dehydrogenation of ethane and propane – ‘Performance of rare-earth oxide-
based catalysts and development of redox-type catalytic materials by
combinatorial methods’. Catal Today 2000;62:91–9.
74
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
[213] Leveles L, Seshan K, Lercher JA, Lefferts L. Oxidative conversion of propane
over lithium-promoted magnesia catalyst: I. Kinetics and mechanism. J Catal
2003;218:296–306.
[214] Leveles L, Fuchs S, Seshan K, Lercher JA, Lefferts L. Oxidative conversion of
light alkanes to oleﬁns over alkali promoted oxide catalysts. Appl Catal A
2002;227:287–97.
[215] Fuchs S, Leveles L, Seshan K, Lefferts L, Lemidou A, Lercher JA. Oxidative
dehydrogenation and cracking of ethane and propane over LiDyMg mixed
oxides. Top Catal 2001;15:169–74.
[216] Trionfetti C, Babich I, Seshan K, Lefferts L. Efﬁcient catalysts for oleﬁns from
alkanes: sol–gel synthesis of high surface area nano scale mixed oxide
clusters. Top Catal 2006;39:191–8.
[217] Trionfetti C, Babich IV, Seshan K, Lefferts L. Formation of high surface area Li/
MgO – Efﬁcient catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation/cracking of
propane. Appl Catal A 2006;310:105–13.
[218] Berger T, Schuh J, Sterrer M, Diwald O, Knozinger E. Lithium ion induced
surface reactivity changes on MgO nanoparticles. J Catal 2007;247:61–7.
[219] Gaab S, Find J, Muller TE, Lercher JA. Kinetics and mechanism of the oxidative
dehydrogenation of ethane over Li/Dy/Mg/O/(Cl) mixed oxide catalysts. Top
Catal 2007;46:101–10.
[220] Amin NAS, Pheng SE. Inﬂuence of process variables and optimization of
ethylene yield in oxidative coupling of methane over Li/MgO catalyst. Chem
Eng J 2006;116:187–95.
[221] Orlando R, Cora F, Millini R, Perego G, Dovesi R. Hydrogen abstraction from
methane by Li doped MgO: a periodic quantum mechanical study. J Chem
Phys 1996;105:8937–43.
[222] Orlando R, Millini R, Perego G, Dovesi R. Catalytic properties of F-centres at
the magnesium oxide surface: hydrogen abstraction from methane. J. Mol
Catal A 1997;119:253–62.
[223] Johnson MA, Stefanovich EV, Truong TN. An ab initio study on the oxidative
coupling of methane over a lithium-doped MgO catalyst: surface defects and
mechanism. J Phys Chem B 1997;101:3196–201.
[224] Ackermann L, Gale JD, Catlow CRA. Interaction of methane with a [Li](0)
center on MgO(100): HF, Post-HF, and DFT cluster model studies. J Phys
Chem B 1997;101:10028–34.
[225] Borve KJ, Pettersson LGM. Hydrogen abstraction from methane on an
MgO(001) surface. J Phys Chem 1991;95:7401–5.
[226] Catlow CRA, French SA, Sokol AA, Thomas JM. Computational approaches to
the determination of active site structures and reaction mechanisms in
heterogeneous catalysts. Philos Trans Royal Soc A 2005;363:913–36.
[227] Zobel N, Behrendt F. Activation energy for hydrogen abstraction from
methane over Li-doped MgO: a density functional theory study. J Chem
Phys 2006;125. art. no. 074715.
[228] Dash LK, Gillan MJ. Assessment of competing mechanisms of the abstraction
of hydrogen from CH4 on Li/MgO(001). Surf Sci 2004;549:217–26.
[229] Pala R, Tang W, Sushchikh M, Park JN, Forman A, McFarland EW, et al.. Dopant
induced Non-Mars and Van Krevelen oxidation pathways for CO oxidation
and preferential oxidation of CO in ZnO doped with Ti or Al. J Phys Chem [in
preparation].
[230] Pala R, Metiu H. Selective promotion of different modes of methanol
adsorption via the cation substitutional doping of a ZnO surface. J Catal
2008;254:321–5.
[231] Pala RGS, Metiu H. Modiﬁcation of the oxidative power of ZnO(1 0 0) surface
by substituting some surface Zn atoms with other metals. J Phys Chem C
2007;111:8617–22.
[232] Chrétien S, Metiu H. Density functional study of the CO oxidation on a doped
rutile TiO2(110): effect of ionic Au in catalysis. Catal Lett 2006;107:143–7.
[233] Chrétien S, Metiu H. The interaction of Aun (n = 1–7) with oxygen: the
formation of a gold oxide [in preparation].
[234] Oho LK, Cuenya BR. Formation and thermal stability of Au2O3 on Au
nanoparticles: size and support effects. J Phys Chem C 2008;112:4676–86.
[235] Koch W, Holthausen MC. A chemist’s guide to density functional theory. New
York: Wiley- VCH; 2001.
[236] Varganov SA, Olson RM, Gordon MS, Metiu H. The interaction of oxygen with
small gold clusters. J Chem Phys 2003;119:2531–7.
[237] Hakkinen H, Yoon B, Landman U, Li X, Zhai HJ, Wang LS. On the electronic and
atomic
structures
of
small
Aun- (N = 4–14)
clusters:
a
photoelectron
spectroscopy
and
density-functional
study.
J
Phys
Chem
A
2003;107:6168–75.
[238] Yoon B, Hakkinen H, Landman U. Interaction of O2 with gold clusters:
molecular and dissociative adsorption. J Phys Chem A 2003;107:4066–71.
[239] Xu Y, Mavrikakis M. Adsorption and dissociation of O2 on gold surfaces: effect
of steps and strain. J Phys Chem B 2003;107:9298–307.
[240] Molina
LM,
Hammer
B.
Some
recent
theoretical
advances
in
the
understanding of the catalytic activity of Au. Appl Catal A 2005;291:21–31.
[241] Molina LM, Hammer B. The activity of the tetrahedral Au20 cluster: charging
and impurity effects. J Catal 2005;233:399–404.
[242] Molina LM, Rasmussen MD, Hammer B. Adsorption of O2 and oxidation of CO
at Au nanoparticles supported by TiO2(110). J Chem Phys 2004;120:
7673–80.
[243] Liu Z-P, Gong X-Q, Kohanoff J, Sanchez C, Hu P. Catalytic role of metal oxides
in gold-based catalysts: a ﬁrst principles study of CO oxidation on TiO2
supported Au. Phys Rev Lett 2003;91. art. no. 266102.
[244] Remediakis IN, Lopez N, Nørskov JK. CO oxidation on rutile-supported Au
nanoparticles. Angew Chem – Int Ed 2005;44:1824–6.
[245] Remediakis IN, Lopez N, Nørskov JK. CO oxidation on gold nanoparticles:
theoretical studies. Appl Catal A 2005;291:13–20.
[246] Zhang Y, Kolmakov A, Chretien S, Metiu H, Moskovits M. Control of catalytic
reactions at the surface of a metal oxide nanowire by manipulating electron
density inside it. Nano Letters 2004;4:403–7.
[247] Molina LM, Hammer B. Active role of oxide support during CO oxidation at
Au/MgO. Phys Rev Lett 2003;90. art. no. 206102.
[248] Molina LM, Hammer B. Theoretical study of CO oxidation on Au nanoparticles
supported by MgO(100). Phys Rev B 2004;69. art. no. 155424.
[249] Chen Y, Crawford P, Hu P. Recent advances in understanding CO oxidation on
gold nanoparticles using density functional theory. Catal Lett 2007;119:21–8.
[250] Bongiorno A, Landman U. Water-enhanced catalysis of CO oxidation on free
and supported gold nanoclusters. Phys Rev Lett 2005;95. art. no. 106102.
[251] Janssens TVW, Clausen BS, Hvolbaek B, Falsig H, Christensen CH, Bligaard T,
et al. Insights into the reactivity of supported Au nanoparticles: combining
theory and experiments. Top Catal 2007;44:15–26.
[252] Chrétien S, Metiu H. Density functional study of the interaction between
small Au clusters, Aun (n = 1–7) and the rutile TiO2 surface. I. Adsorption on
the stoichiometric surface. J Chem Phys 2007;127. art. no. 084704.
[253] Chrétien S, Metiu H. Density functional study of the interaction between
small Aun clusters (n = 1–7) and the rutile TiO2(110) surface. II. Adsorption
on a partially reduced surface. J Chem Phys 2007;127. art. no. 244708.
[254] Liu LM, McAllister B, Ye HQ, Hu P. Identifying an O2 supply pathway in CO
oxidation on Au/TiO2(110): a density functional theory study on the intrinsic
role of water. J Am Chem Soc 2006;128:4017–22.
[255] Broqvist P, Molina LM, Gronbeck H, Hammer B. Promoting and poisoning
effects of Na and Cl coadsorption on CO oxidation over MgO-supported Au
nanoparticles. J Catal 2004;227:217–26.
[256] Liu Z-P, Hu P, Alavi A. Catalytic role of gold in gold-based catalysts: a density
functional study of CO oxidation on gold. J Am Chem Soc 2002;124:14770–9.
[257] Hammer B. Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts. Top Catal
2006;37:3–16.
[258] Okumura M, Nakamura S, Tsubota S, Haruta M. Chemical vapor deposition of
gold on Al2O3, SiO2, and TiO2 for the oxidation of CO and of H2. Catal Lett
1998;51:53–8.
[259] Schubert MM, Hackenberg S, van Veen AC, Muhler M, Plzak V, Behm RJ, et al.
CO oxidation over supported gold catalysts – ‘‘Inert” and ‘‘active” support
materials and their role for the oxygen supply during reaction. J Catal
2001;197:113–22.
[260] Bond GC, Thomson DT. Gold-catalysed oxidation of carbon monoxide. Gold
Bull 2000;33:41–51.
[261] Sakurai H, Akita T, Tsubota S, Kiuchi M, Haruta M. Low-temperature activity
of Au/CeO2 for water gas shift reaction, and characterization by ADF-STEM,
temperature-programmed
reaction,
and
pulse
reaction.
Appl
Catal
A
2005;291:179–87.
S. Chrétien et al. / Current Opinion in Solid State and Materials Science 11 (2007) 62–75
75
