Optimizing Perovskites for the Water-Splitting Reaction
element not found
Electrochemical splitting of water into molecular oxygen (O2), protons, and electrons could provide a way to store the electricity generated from sustainable but intermittent energy sources, such as wind and solar power, as fuels (1). Hydrogen would be the simplest fuel to make, but the protons and electrons could be used to produce hydrocarbons and alcohols from CO2 or ammonia from N2. A major challenge is that efficient catalysts for water electrolysis are expensive and contain rare noble metals, so cost-effective approaches will require the discovery of efficient electrocatalysts that contain only Earth-abundant elements. On page 1383 of this issue, Suntivich et al. (2) describe a method for rational design of metal oxide catalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction. They discovered perovskite-structure catalysts based on non-noble metals that work with a higher efficiency than one of the state-of-the-art catalysts, iridium oxide.
Most catalyst development has been based on trial-and-error approaches. To rationally design a catalyst, we need to understand which intrinsic material characteristics, or descriptors, control catalysis. One approach, for example, is to change the electronic properties of the material through the deliberate addition of other elements. Finding a descriptor can be very challenging because of the complexity of a chemical reaction involving several subreactions with numerous intermediates. When a descriptor is identified, the catalytic rate typically has a “volcano”-shaped dependence on the descriptor with a maximum at the optimum value of this descriptor (see the figure, panel A) (3).
Suntivich et al. conducted a systematic investigation of several transition metal oxides and deduced that the number of occupied d orbital states of a specific symmetry (eg) of the active metal can be used as the descriptor (see the figure, panel A). They then searched for compositions with a descriptor value near the predicted optimum and identified Ba0.5Sr0.5Co0.8Fe0.2O3-δ perovskite as a good candidate. Subsequent synthesis and testing revealed this hypothesis to be correct.
SIGN UP FOR THE SCIENCEADVISER NEWSLETTER
The latest news, commentary, and research, free to your inbox daily
SIGN UP
Why does the eg occupation act as a good descriptor of the catalytic activity for the oxygen evolution reaction? Suntivich et al. suggest that it must be related to the ability of the surface to bond oxygen, given the suggestion, based on density functional theory (DFT) calculations, that oxygen adsorption energy is a good descriptor for this reaction (4). The reason is that all of the reaction intermediates (*OH, *O, *OOH, where the asterisk indicates a bond to the surface) interact with the surface through an O atom. Some reaction steps (such as the formation of *OH or *O from H2O) become easier when O atoms interact more strongly with the surface, whereas other steps (such as *O + H2O → OOH− + H+ + e−) become more difficult because surface-oxygen bonds are ruptured.
Discovering descriptors for catalyst performance.(A) For many catalytic reactions, intrinsic catalyst parameters, or descriptors, can be identified (such as changes in electronic properties created by using different metals) that lead to a “volcano plot” for the reaction rate. (B) Suntivich et al. identified the occupation of d states with eg symmetry as a good descriptor for the oxygen evolution reaction over metal oxide catalysts. We include DFT calculations (7) to show that the descriptor can also be the t2g symmetry occupation or the adsorption energy of oxygen. (C) Schematic of the formation of a bond between an oxygen adsorbate level and the d states of the oxide, explaining why the occupancy of the d states correlates with the oxygen adsorption energy and hence with the catalytic activity.
This tradeoff was exploited and led to the identification of an optimum surface-oxygen interaction energy that maximizes the overall rate. This approach follows the Sabatier principle (5), which states that the interaction between the catalysts and the adsorbate should be neither too strong nor too weak, but introduces the important new aspect of quantifying this interaction strength (3). The electronic structure of these solid oxides is described by band theory. Unlike an isolated molecule, the valence bands and conduction bands can be partially filled with electrons, which is described as a density of states (DOS).
We show in the figure, panel B, that the notion that the surface-oxygen bond energy scales with the eg occupation is borne out by direct DFT calculation. In addition, there is a similar correlation with the occupancy of the other d symmetry component, t2g. A more detailed analysis of the electronic structure reveals that the occupation of eg and t2g states has two contributions, one from occupied valence band states and one from occupied conduction band states. The best correlation is with the number of occupied conduction band states. Hence, it is the reactive states near the Fermi level (which separates the occupied from the unoccupied states) that are responsible for the occupancy of eg/t2g states being a good descriptor.
The interaction between these surface states and the O 2p adsorbate levels gives rise to bonding and antibonding O states (see the figure, panel C). The adsorption strength will depend on the occupancy of these bonding and antibonding O states and will be strongest when the O bonding states are completely occupied while the O antibonding states are completely unoccupied. This bonding interaction resembles the ones between an adsorbate and a transition metal surface, in which the d-band center of the metal is a descriptor (3), and between an adsorbate and a transition metal carbide surface, in which the center of the surface resonance states is a descriptor (6).
The work of Suntivich et al. provides a new approach for science-based catalyst design and for finding cheap and efficient alternatives to the known inorganic catalysts for water splitting. Their work is an important step toward sustainable fuel production, and could also provide insights into more direct approaches in which incident light helps to power the water-splitting process.
8
We thank the Office of Basic Energy Sciences, U.S. Department of Energy, for support through the SUNCAT program.