I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Investigation of the Isolated Cr(VI) Species in Cr/MCM-41 Catalysts and its Effect on Catalytic Activity for Dehydrogenation of Propane Graphical Abstract Caught! Isolated Cr(VI) states were identified in the Cr/MCM-41 catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as causing the decreased activity toward propane conversion and low selectivity towards C3H6.
Abstract Cr-modified MCM-41 with different loadings were prepared and tested in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reaction. As for Cr/MCM-41 system, the general knowledge was that high Cr loadings resulted in the reduction of silica surface hydroxyl groups, thus leading to the formation of inactive Cr(III) species, as clusters and/or crystalline Cr2O3. However, in the present work, isolated Cr(VI) states were identified in the Cr/MCM-41 catalysts, instead of Cr(III) species, using UV-vis and H2-TPR. These isolated Cr(VI) species are difficult to reduce, causing the decreased activity for propane conversion and low selectivity towards C3H6 in the PDH process. In contrast, a good dispersion of the Cr species was obtained using a chromium column adsorption process, and the absence of the isolated state of Cr(VI) species on this sample contributed to high activity toward PDH process. The investigation of the isolated Cr(VI) species is very important for the Cr-based PDH catalyst system.
Introduction Recently, growing demand for propene has spurred an increased interest in the dehydrogenation reaction of propane.1 Since the product of propene is an important feedstock in the manufacture of many chemicals, such as propylene oxide, polypropylene and acrylonitrile.2 In particular, the recent conversion of propane from shale gas has anticipated to decrease the cost of production and made it to be more commercial and attractive, due to the vast amounts and growing production of shale gas worldwide.3 In general, dehydrogenation reaction can be classified into oxidative and non-oxidative processes. Though the former shows the advantage of reducing coke formation, it is still associated with the problem that the oxidation degree is hard to be controlled during actual industrial application, thus leading to safety issues and low propene yield inevitably.4 Consequently, non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has been gained much attention and realized in commercial applications.5 As far as the PDH catalyst system is concerned, Cr-based catalysts are mainly tested in process. On the one hand, various Cr catalysts with supports of Al2O3,6 ZrO2,7 and SiO28 have been studied. It is accepted that the type of the support can influence the PDH catalytic activity, and mesoporous silica-based material, MCM-41, with high surface area and uniform pore size is preferentially used as support for a preparation of different kinds of catalysts.8 In fact, Cr supported on MCM-41 catalyst has been tested and proved to be a highly active catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane,9 and its application for dehydrogenation of isobutane and ethane has also been reported.10 However, to our best knowledge, few works are available in the literatures concerning PDH reaction over Cr/MCM-41 catalyst. On the other hand, understanding the exact nature of active Cr species under PDH condition is critically important and seem to be the fundamental for controlling the catalyst properties.8 The present literature results indicate that the redox cycle between active Cr(VI) and Cr(III) species has been proposed to be responsible for the activity of dehydrogenation reaction. Moreover, the presence of oxidized surface Cr species with higher-valence state (e.g. Cr(VI)) seems to be necessary for the production of active Cr sites, and could be generally regarded as active centers.7a,9a,10,11 It is considered that active Cr(VI) species predominate at low Cr loadings, while high loadings result in the formation of inactive Cr(III) species, as clusters and/or crystalline Cr2O3,9b,12 on which not all Cr sites are accessible to the reactants and producing negative effect on the catalytic activity.9b In fact, as for these reported literatures, the general knowledge is that low Cr loadings contribute to good dispersion of Cr species, and as a result, mononuclear Cr(VI) as well as some Cr(III) species with coordinative vacancies are obtained. But high Cr loadings are expected to cause the formation less active polymeric Cr(III) species. The formation of inactive Cr(III) species is attributed to the consumption of silica surface hydroxyl groups, which can provide anchoring sites for the stabilization of Cr(VI) species.13 Consequently, some of the Cr(VI) species are converted to inactive Cr(III) species, accompanied by the depletion of surface hydroxyl groups at higher Cr loadings.14 In our present work, to verify the effect of Cr loadings on the nature of the Cr species, Cr/MCM-41 catalysts with different weight of Cr loadings (5, 10, and 15wt%) were prepared. Surprisingly, it is found that at high Cr loading, not all the Cr(VI) species are expectantly converted to inactive Cr(III) species. Instead, some of the inactive Cr(VI) species regarded as isolated Cr(VI) species are observed on 15%Cr/MCM-41 catalyst. Furthermore, these isolated Cr(VI) species, which exhibits difficulty to be reduced, cause the decreased activity for PDH process. However, as far as we know, few reports are focused on investigating the presence of isolated Cr(VI) species and their effects on the catalytic activity of PDH reaction. Thus, our current work is mainly to study the isolated Cr(VI) species in the Cr/MCM-41 catalysts and analyzing its effect on catalytic activity for dehydrogenation of propane, which deserves significant importance for Cr-based PDH catalyst system.
Results and Discussion Figure1 shows the catalytic activity for PDH over Cr/MCM-41 catalysts. As a result, all the samples exhibit a similar trend as a function of time in terms of propane conversion and propene selectivity. The decrease in the activity within initial 40min of running time could be attributed to the conversion of part of the active Cr(VI) sites and the formation of coke during the PDH reaction,4b,15 as revealed in the followings. Sample 10Cr/MCM-41 obtains the best catalytic performance with a propane conversion of 40% and a propene selectivity of 80% after 1h of reaction, whereas sample 15Cr/MCM-41 shows the poorest catalytic performance with regard to propane conversion and propene selectivity. To explain the above results, further characterization studies are carried out and given.
Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Catalytic activity of Cr/MCM-41 catalysts for (A) propane conversion, and (B) propene selectivity.
The XRD patterns of the Cr/MCM-41 catalysts with different Cr contents are given in Figure2A. It is observed that the diffraction lines of Cr2O3 are clearly found in the XRD patterns of all the tested samples,16 and the peak intensity increases with increasing the Cr content from 5% to 15%, suggesting the good crystallinity of Cr2O3 at high Cr loadings. Despite this, catalytic experiments are carried out using mechanical mixtures of Cr2O3 with MCM-41 support, and almost no catalytic activity is seen in the PDH reaction, as shown in FigureS1 in Electronic Supplementary Information (ESI). Therefore, a detailed analysis towards the effect of bulk Cr2O3 phase on the activity of PDH process will not be discussed further. The UV-vis spectra of the Cr/MCM-41 samples are compared in Figure2B. From Figure2B, UV bands at about 270 and 360nm express OCr(VI) charge transfer transitions of chromates species.17 Specifically, the intense peak centered at about 360nm, which is characteristic for isolated Cr(VI) oxide,11c is more pronounced in the 15Cr/MCM-41 catalyst, indicating more isolated Cr(VI) species are presented in the case of the samples with a high Cr content. Additionally, two bands at about 460 and 600nm assigned to octahedral Cr(III) in CrOx clusters or Cr2O3 are mainly found for all samples.9a Actually, the band located at around 600nm could be assigned to the presence of crystalline Cr2O3.17 Thus, the obtained UV-vis results is in accordance with the XRD data.
Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint (A) XRD patterns, (B) UV-vis spectra, and (C) H2-TPR profiles of Cr/MCM-41 catalysts.
The H2-TPR profiles of the synthesized Cr/MCM-41 samples are displayed in Figure2C. Over the 5Cr/MCM-41 and 10Cr/MCM-41 catalysts, one broad reduction peak at about 420C considered as a result of the reduction of Cr(VI) species interacted with the support can be seen.17 Furthermore, an additional reduction band centered at about 280C appears clearly from the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample, which is given account for the reduction of Cr(VI) species dispersed on crystalline α-Cr2O3.12,17 This result is in line with the XRD and UV-vis data that suggest the presence of crystalline Cr2O3 for the tested sample. In particular, one high temperature reduction peak located at about 540C can be detected in the case of the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample, supposedly caused by the reduction of the isolated Cr(VI) species, which is reported to be difficult to be reduced.11c Thus, the H2-TPR data combined with the UV-vis results confirm part of Cr(VI) species exists as the isolated state in the sample of 15Cr/MCM-41. Besides, mechanical mixtures of CrO3 with MCM-41 solid (with Cr content of 1, 5 and 15%) are designed to shed some further light on the nature of active Cr species in the Cr/MCM-41 system, since no interaction between active Cr(VI) species and MCM-41 support is obtained from this mechanical mixing process, and consequently, the isolated state of Cr(VI) species are likely to appear. From the characterization results of UV-vis and H2-TPR as demonstrated in FigureS2 in ESI, it is shown that the isolated Cr(VI) species, as marked in FigureS2A, lead to the reduction peak divide into two parts (FigureS2B), thus further confirming our current conclusion.
FigureS3 in ESI shows the Si 2p, O 1s and Cr 2p XPS curves of the Cr/MCM-41 catalysts. From FigureS3B, the intense O 1s XP spectra of the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample located at low binding energy (BE) arises from the contribution of lattice oxygen,18 which symbolizes the possible generation of crystalline Cr2O3 form,10a as illustrated by the XRD, UV-vis and H2-TPR results. Moreover, as seen in FigureS3A and FigureS3B, the shift in the Si 2p and O 1s BE of the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample is likely caused by the fact the local environment in CrOx domain is different,19 as revealed that some unexpected isolated state of Cr(VI) species are presented. Besides, the increase in the intensity of the Cr 2p XP spectra in FigureS3C confirms the increase in the Cr loadings. In addition, an examination of Cr2p XP spectra in Figure3 illustrates the presence of both Cr(VI) and Cr(III) states in the synthesized samples, and peak fitting of the Cr2p BE region of the 10Cr/MCM-41 and 15Cr/MCM-41 samples shows that a higher relative percent of Cr(VI) are presented on the 15Cr/MCM-41 catalyst. Actually, an actual Cr(VI) content over the 10Cr/MCM-41 and 15Cr/MCM-41 catalysts are calculated, and it seems that H2 consumption (regarded as the peak area from H2 reduction process) is positively related to the actual Cr(VI) content. However, the H2 consumption over the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample is lower than it deserves (as shown in Figure3C), possibly resulted from the existence of isolated state of Cr(VI) species, and causing an inhibition of reduction process.
Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint (A) and (B) Cr 2p XP spectra of Cr/MCM-41 catalysts; (C) H2 consumption and actual Cr(VI) content over Cr/MCM-41 catalysts.
Figure4 is the FT-IR results for the Cr/MCM-41 samples. From Figure4A, a typical band at about 640cm1, which is absent in the MCM-41 support, is observed over the 10Cr/MCM-41 and 15Cr/MCM-41 catalysts, indicating the formation of Cr2O3 phase.16 Moreover, a weak IR band around 905cm1, attributed to a Cr(VI)-O vibration,20 is seen in the tested Cr/MCM-41 samples, which is in accordance with the UV-vis and XPS results. Besides, a FT-IR band around 960cm1 is correlated with the superficial hydroxyl groups from SiO bond vibration.21 The shift of this band to the low wavelength location, when Cr content increases to 15wt%, is related to the replacement of OH groups.20 Figure 4 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint (A) and (B) FT-IR spectra of Cr/MCM-41 catalysts.
Furthermore, it is noted that the high-frequency region from 3200 to 3700cm1 can be assigned to the stretching vibration of SiOH bond.22 The decrease in the intensity of this band in the case of the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample further reflects the consumption OH groups during Cr impregnation process. As mentioned above, high Cr loadings may cause the depletion of surface hydroxyl groups. This effect, as evident from the FT-IR analysis, decreases the stabilization of the Cr(VI) species on the support.13 Consequently, some of the Cr(VI) species are converted to inactive Cr(III) species, accompanied by the depletion of surface hydroxyl groups. As a result, inactive Cr(III) species as well as some unexpected isolated Cr(VI) states are found. The diagram for the formation of isolated state of Cr(VI) species on Cr/MCM-41 is exhibited in Figure5, on which not all the Cr(VI) species are converted to inactive Cr(III) species, while some of the inactive Cr(VI) species regarded as isolated Cr(VI) species are observed on 15Cr/MCM-41 catalyst. The isolated Cr can be located on the support, interface, steps and edges, et.al. On the other hand, the high amount of OH groups allows us to expect a better stability of the catalyst by suppressing the coke deposition during the reaction.2b,10b Thus, a decrease in the activity for PDH process over the 15Cr/MCM-41 catalyst with low intensity of OH groups is obtained.
Figure 5 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Diagram of the formation of isolated state of Cr(VI) species on Cr/MCM-41.The STEM/Mapping images as well as SEM/mapping analysis are respectively shown in Figure6, FigureS4 and FigureS5 in ESI, which indicates the difference in the dispersion of Cr between 10Cr/MCM-41 and 15Cr/MCM-41 samples. From Figure6, it is clearly found that the introduced Cr species are agglomerated on the MCM-41 support. Thus, it could be concluded that the poor dispersion of Cr species over the 15Cr/MCM-41 catalyst gives rise to the formation of isolated Cr(VI) states. In fact, it's worth mentioning that another method for the synthesis of Cr/MCM-41 catalyst, called as Chromium Column Adsorption process and reported in our previous work,13c shows a better dispersion of Cr species over the Cr/MCM-41 sample, as displayed in FigureS6 in ESI (according to the XRF data, the Cr content from this method is close to 15%wt, results are not shown). Surprisingly, no characterization of the isolated state of Cr(VI) species are seen from the H2-TPR profile (as shown in FigureS7B in ESI), and meanwhile, its activity towards PDH reaction is higher than that over the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample, as exhibited in FigureS7A in ESI). The observation of the reduction band at about 280C evidences the formation of crystalline α-Cr2O3 over the sample from the Chromium Column Adsorption process, which indicates a high content of Cr contains on this catalyst. But to our surprise, the high activity towards PDH process over this sample is mainly attributed to the good dispersion of Cr and the absence of isolated state of Cr(VI) species.Figure 6 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint STEM/Mapping images of the 15Cr/MCM-41 catalysts.Figure7 exhibits the selectivity of the produced CH4, C2H6 and C2H4 over these Cr/MCM-41 catalysts. From Figure7, it is clearly seen that higher amounts of CH4 and C2H4 are shown on the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample, possibly resulted from the side reaction of C3H8(g)CH4(g)+C2H4(g) (ΔrHΘ298K=81.7kJ/mol), instead of the occurrence of the main reaction of C3H8(g)C3H6(g)+H2(g) (ΔrHΘ298K=123.8kJ/mol). From this point, it is deduced that the isolated state of Cr(VI) species function as the inactive one during PDH process. Besides, from FigureS1, it is known that catalyst of mechanical mixing of Cr2O3 with MCM-41 shows no catalytic activity towards PDH, but an improved activity is observed for its oxidized phase (by oxidizing the sample with air at 600C, as shown in Figure8). However, from Figure8B and Figure8C, the existence of the isolated Cr(VI) state results in the lower selectivity of C3H6 during the reaction. Thus, these results clearly show that the generated isolated Cr(VI) species lead to the decreased activity toward propane conversion and low selectivity of C3H6 for PDH process, due to the low catalytic activity of the generated isolated Cr(VI) species.Figure 7 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint (A) CH4, (B) C2H6 and (C) C2H4 selectivity of Cr/MCM-41 catalysts.Figure 8 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint (A) C3H8 conversion, (B) selectivity of the produced hydrocarbons of over Cr2O3-MCM-41 catalyst (mechanical mixing), and (C) UV-vis of the Cr2O3-MCM-41 catalyst (mechanical mixing) and oxidized Cr2O3-MCM-41 catalyst (mechanical mixing).To further clarify the type of the formed Cr species, Figure9A displays the Raman spectra obtained for the 10Cr/MCM-41 and 15Cr/MCM-41 samples. As seen in Figure9A, 10Cr/MCM-41 and 15Cr/MCM-41 show an intense band at about 982cm1, which is attributed to the symmetric stretching of surface monochromate species.12a Furthermore, the bands located at about 400, 545 and 600cm1, respectively characteristic of the bending mode of CrO2 units, the symmetric stretching mode of Cr2O3 crystals as well as the symmetric stretching of polymeric Cr species,12a present simultaneously at the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample, which indicates that high Cr loading leads to polymeric Cr species. As a matter of fact, from the above analysis, these polymeric Cr not only contains the inactive Cr(III) species, but also includes the formed isolated Cr(VI) species, which shows low catalytic activity for PDH. Meanwhile, Raman spectra toward the spent 15Cr/MCM-41 catalysts are shown in Figure9B. It is seen that Raman signals at about 1380 and 1610cm1, representing for the accumulation of coke deposit over the spent catalyst,23 are found in the spent 15Cr/MCM-41 sample. From Figure9B, it is noted that the existence of coke deposit has affected the expression of Cr signals. Hence, further analysis for the spent 15Cr/MCM-41 sample is not given. Additionally, C3H8-TPD tests of the 10Cr/MCM-41 and 15Cr/MCM-41 samples are carried out. From Figure9C, it is observed that 10Cr/MCM-41 sample shows a more intense C3H8 desorption peak, which suggests the better catalytic activity of this sample. Moreover, the intensity of the C3H6 (desorption product) over the 10Cr/MCM-41 sample is higher than that of the 15Cr/MCM-41 sample, which can be applied to explain the poor selectivity of C3H6 over the 10Cr/MCM-41.Figure 9 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Raman spectra of (A) Cr/MCM-41 catalysts; (B) spent 15Cr/MCM-41 catalysts; (C) and (D) C3H8-TPD and C3H6-TPD profiles of Cr/MCM-41 catalysts.Conclusions To summarize, Cr/MCM-41 catalysts with different Cr loadings were prepared and tested for the PDH reaction. It was shown that some inactive Cr(VI) states regarded as the isolated Cr(VI) species were found over the high Cr content Cr/MCM-41 catalyst, accompanied by the reduction of silica surface hydroxyl groups. Instead, the previous general knowledge is that high Cr loadings can cause the generation of inactive Cr(III) species, as clusters and/or crystalline Cr2O3. Therefore, understanding and investigating the characters of the formed isolated Cr(VI) species in Cr/MCM-41 catalysts can be used to realize its negative effect on catalytic activity for PDH process, which deserved significant importance for Cr-based PDH catalyst system.Experimental Section The mesoporous MCM-41 was prepared in our laboratory as previously reported.13c The Cr modified MCM-41 catalysts with different weight of Cr loadings (5, 10, and 15wt%) were synthesized by the wet impregnation method, due to its superiority of low cost and operational easy. Appropriate amounts of (NH4)2CrO4 in aqueous solution were mixed with 2g of MCM-41 samples and vigorously stirred for 1h. After impregnation, the resulting mixtures were dried at 90C for 6h and subsequently calcined at 550C for 6h. All of the prepared catalysts were pressed, crushed and sieved before the activity test.X-ray diffraction (XRD) were obtained using Rigaku D/max-1200 diffractometer, with CuKα radiation (λ=1.5406Å) at 40kV and 30mA, to determine the crystal structure of the obtained catalyst samples. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) were recorded on a PHI 5000 Versa Probe II spectrometer to study the surface atomic states of chromium species, and carbon calibration was done by referring C1s peak at 284.6eV. Ultraviolet-visible spectra (UV-vis) in absorbance mode were measured with a Cary 500 spectrometer at room temperature, and the spectra were recorded within the wavelength range of 200850nm. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) were collected on a Nicolet 560 IR spectrometer, using KBr plate in the range of 5004000cm-1. H2-temperature programmed reduction (H2-TPR) were performed on an apparatus equipped with a thermal conductivity (TCD) detector. 50mg of catalyst was pre-treated in pure Ar flow at 400C for 1h, and reduced from 100 to 700C (at a ramping rate of 10C/min) with H2 (10%)/Ar flow. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were observed using an S-4800 SEM (Hitachi S-4800, Japan), and elemental mapping of catalysts were carried out. The STEM images coupled with the EDX elemental mapping were also conducted.The PDH reaction was operated in a fixed-bed micro-reactor under atmospheric pressure, and the reaction temperature was fixed at 630C. Prior to reaction, 0.4g of the catalyst was preheated at 630C in a stream of N2 flow for 0.5h. Afterwards, the feed gas consisted of C3H8(14%)/N2 was introduced into the reactor, with the total flow rate of 29mL/min. Products of PDH were analyzed by an online gas chromatograph (GC) equipped with TCD, and FID (flame ionization detector). The conversion of propane and selectivity of propene were defined based on Equations [1] and [1]:(1) (2) whereC[C3H8]in is the initial concentration of C3H8 before the reaction, and C[CxHy]out is the output concentration of hydrocarbons during the reaction.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 