element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
Volume 259
, 15 March 2018, Pages 33-45
Hierarchical zeolites: Synthesis and catalytic properties
Author links open overlay panel
Agnieszka Feliczak-Guzik a b
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2017.09.030
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
Comparison of zeolites with hierarchical zeolites.
•
Variation of synthesis methods of hierarchical zeolites.
•
Application of hierarchical zeolites in catalytic reactions.
Abstract
Synthesis, characterization and application of hierarchical zeolites are becoming a subject of increasing interest among scientists. Hierarchical zeolites possessing secondary porosity at meso- and macroscale, imposed on primary microporous structures are an original class of porous materials exhibiting both molecular sieving ability and fast mass transport. These materials, due to the combination of catalytic properties of conventional zeolites with enhanced access and transport of reagents in additional meso- or microporosity, constitute an effective solution to the problem of mass transport, which occurs while using conventional zeolites in catalytic reactions. The latter allows molecules of substrates to access the active sites that are located within micropores and reduce the catalysts, leading to increase reaction rates and catalyst life-time (slower deactivation removal time of product molecules). Besides, secondary porosity of hierarchical zeolites creates an ideal space for deposition of active catalytic phases controlling their size and allows attaining high dispersion and strong interaction between zeolite and the medium.
This work focuses on the review of synthesis methods of hierarchical zeolites and their application in selected catalytic reactions.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (252KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article
Next article
Keywords
Hierarchical zeolitesSynthesisCatalytic properties
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.