element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
Volume 339
, July 2022, 112010
Enhanced Pt dispersion and catalytic properties of NaCl-promoted Pt/MFI zeolite catalysts for propane dehydrogenation
Author links open overlay panel
Andrey B. Ponomaryov a
,
Andrei V. Smirnov b c
,
Elena V. Pisarenko d
,
Mikhail V. Shostakovsky a
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112010
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
Impregnation-calcination-washing method of Pt catalysts preparation is proposed.
•
Calcination of the Pt precursor with an excess of NaCl increases the dispersion of Pt.
•
NaCl excess contributes to stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts.
•
Washing after calcination improves the activity and stability of Pt/MFI catalysts.
Abstract
A simple and scalable method is presented for preparing propane dehydrogenation catalysts with superior catalytic properties. Pt distribution is significantly improved when the platinum precursor and a large amount of NaCl are introduced into the MFI zeolite by impregnation, and after calcining and fixing the active components in the insoluble form, the excess of inert salt is washed with water. NaCl promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering during calcination, and effectively suppresses zeolite acidity. Washing after the calcination of Pt-containing catalysts further increases the catalyst activity and stability due to the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds. High external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 40–70, calcination temperatures of 400–500 °C, washing with water, and the order of component introduction when the excess NaCl and the precursor of Pt are calcined jointly contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (302KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article
Next article
Keywords
Propane dehydrogenationZeolitePt/MFIImpregnationDispersionWashing
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
© 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.