<quotes>
[1] "In the case of group 8-group 1B metal combinations, this component is the group 1B metal."
[2] "However, in the presence of a gas which interacts sufficiently strongly and selectively with the group 8 metal, the group 1B metal will not be the predominant component in the surface."
[3] "In bimetallic systems the component with the lower heat of sublimation often accumulates in the surface."
[4] "The effect of adding copper to nickel is markedly different for the two reactions, as shown by the data on specific activities of a series of nickel-copper alloys in Figure 3."
[5] "While such a geometric interpretation is a very reasonable one and can account for a large inhibiting effect of copper on the hydrogenolysis activity of nickel, it is difficult to dismiss the possibility that electronic interaction between copper and nickel atoms may affect the catalysis."
[6] "The range of composition over which the rate is essentially constant may be"
[7] "Direct experimental verification of the bimetallic cluster concept is complicated by limitations in the ability of physical methods to obtain structural information on highly dispersed systems."
[8] "A supported bimetallic catalyst can be prepared simply by wetting a suitable carrier such as silica with an aqueous solution of salts of the two metals of interest."
[9] "The nature of these metallic entities is the question of interest. Will the individual clusters be monometallic or will there be mixing of atoms of the different metals in the form of bimetallic clusters?"
[10] "In applying ethane hydrogenolysis as a probe to establish interaction between copper and either ruthenium or osmium on a carrier, one simply looks for a marked suppression of hydrogenolysis activity of the group 8 metal when copper is present."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Geometrically, the component with the lower heat of sublimation in a group 8-group 1B metal combination accumulates in the surface. Electronically, the group 1B metal might not be the predominant component in the surface when it interacts sufficiently strongly and selectively with the group 8 metal.

2. The addition of copper to nickel has different effects on two different reactions. Copper significantly decreases nickel's activity in hydrogenolysis, but initially increases its activity in dehydrogenation before becoming a minor factor.

3. A geometric interpretation can account for copper's significant inhibitory effect on nickel's hydrogenolysis activity. However, it's challenging to rule out the possibility of electronic interactions between copper and nickel atoms influencing the catalysis.

4. The range of composition for which the rate remains essentially constant might be determined by the interplay between geometric and electronic factors in the catalyst.

5. Direct experimental verification of the bimetallic cluster concept is challenging due to the limitations of physical methods in obtaining structural information on highly dispersed systems.

6. Supported bimetallic catalysts can be prepared by wetting a carrier like silica with aqueous solutions of salt mixtures of the two metals of interest.

7. The nature of these metallic entities, whether they are monometallic or bimetallic clusters, is of particular interest.

8. Applying ethane hydrogenolysis as a probe helps establish the interaction between copper and either ruthenium or osmium on a carrier by looking for a marked decrease in the hydrogenolysis activity of the group 8 metal when copper is present.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在组8-组1B金属组合中，热升华度较低的成分会在表面积累。电子上，当1B金属与组8金属以足够强且选择性的方式相互作用时，1B金属可能不是表面的主要成分。

2. 镍铜合金中铜的添加对两种不同的反应有显著不同的影响。铜显著降低了镍在氢解中的活性，但在最初增加了其脱氢活性，在组成接近纯铜时，该活性仅受到轻微影响。

3. 几何解释可以合理地解释铜对镍氢解活性的大量抑制效果。然而，很难排除铜和镍原子之间电子交互可能影响催化的可能性。

4. 率保持基本恒定的组成范围可能由催化剂中的几何和电子因素之间的相互作用决定。

5. 直接验证双金属簇概念的实验验证由于物理方法在获得高度分散系统结构信息方面的局限性而变得困难。

6. 可以通过将含有两种金属盐的水溶液涂覆在硅胶等载体上的方式制备支持型双金属催化剂。

7. 这些金属实体的性质，无论是单金属还是双金属簇，是特别感兴趣的问题。

8. 将乙烷氢解作为探针，通过观察组8金属在铜存在时氢解活性的显著降低，帮助确定铜与载银上的钌或锇之间的相互作用。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
