I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Vol. 10, 1977 Bimetallic Cluster Catalysis 15 telomerization investigations reviewed in this Account.
VIK acids are of considerable commercial interest.
Their industrial applications depend strongly on structure of initial acids, number and structure of substituents present, and length of main chains. Three types of acids are obtained on an industrial scale: Ck9, Cll-19, and C,19. VIK are used in the production of (46) R. Kh. Freidlina, A. B. Terentev, Yu. P. Chizhov, N. S. Ikonnikov, French Patent 1,537,490 (1967); Chem. Abstr., 71, 101319g (1969). oil-free coatings-lacquers and enamels for cars and household machinery-having good decorative and protective proper tie. VIK have also found appli- cations as extractants for isolation and separation of nonferrous and rare metals from aqueous solutions of their salts.48 (47) R. Kh. Freidlina, A. B. Terentev, P. M. Bogatyrev et al., French Patent 2,091,907 (1974); Chem. Abstr., 83, 81407b (1975).
(48) A. V. Nikolaev, A. I. Kholkin, R. Kh. Freidlina, A. B. Terentev et al., Izu. Sib. Otd. Akad. Nauk SSSR, Ser. Khim. Nauk, 52 (1972).
Catalysis by Alloys and Bimetallic Clusters John H. Sinfelt Corporate Research Laboratories, Exxon Research and Engineering Co., Linden, New Jersey Received June 10, 1976 Bimetallic catalysts have been of interest for in- vestigating the so-called electronic factor in catalysis by metals.l+ Transition metals, especially the metals of group 8, are the active catalysts for many  reaction.
In terms of the electron-band theory, a group 8 metal such as nickel is characterized as having an incom- pletely filled d band, whereas a group 1B metal such as copper has a filled d band. According to the original view of Mott and Jones,8 an alloy of a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal is characterized by a d band which is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. In the case of a nickel-copper alloy, the substitution of copper atoms for nickel atoms in the metal lattice adds extra electrons to the lattice. The extra electrons introduced with the copper enter the d band until it is filled. By varying the composition of the alloy, one can alter the degree of filling of the d band with electrons and observe the effect on catalytic activity.
In the model of electronic structure just described for the alloys, which is known as the rigid band model,there is a single d band for the alloy as a whole, with no differentiation between the different types of atoms in the alloy with regard to their chemical bonding properties. This model of the electronic structure of group 8-group 1B metal alloys has been challenged in recent yeawg-l2 According to the more recent view,there are separate d bands characteristic of each component of the alloy. In any case, the experimental data on chemisorption and catalysis indicate that the different types of atoms in the surface of the alloy, e.g.,nickel and copper, retain their chemical differences,although bonding properties of the atoms are probably altered to some degree.13 Present efforts to elucidate the electronic factor in catalysis by alloys are proceeding John H. Sinfelt is a Scientific Advisor in the Corporate Research Laboratories of Exxon Research and Engineering Company in Linden, N.J., where he heads a group doing research in heterogeneous catalysis. His main research interest is catalysis by metals, and recently he has concentrated on developing the concept of highly dispersed bimetallic (or, more generally, pobmetallic) cluster catalysts.
He was born in Munson, Pa., in 1931, and received his B.S. degree from The Pennsylvania State University and his Ph.D. from University of Illinois. Dr Sinfelt is recipient of the 1976 ACS Award in Petroleum Chemistry sponsored by The Lubrizol Corporation, and this Account is based on his award address. from this point of view, which resembles the idea of ligand effects in the chemistry of organometallic cmplexes.
Although progress in the use of alloys to elucidate the electronic factor in metal catalysis has been slow, in- terest in bimetallic systems has not declined. In fact,there has been a great revival of interest in the field in recent years, for reasons other than a renewed probing into the electronic factor alone. These include (a) the realization that bimetallic systems may exhibit major selectivity effects in catalysis, i.e., markedly different behavior toward different types of r e a c t i  n s , l  - and (b) the development of the idea of highly dispersed bimetallic systems, i.e., bimetallic cluster c a t a l y  t s .   , The selectivity features of bimetallic catalysts have only recently received any attention. Early studies of the electronic factor emphasized the relation between alloy composition and catalytic activity for hydro- genation reactions in which selectivity was not a con- sideration. Typical reactions investigated were the hydrogenation of benzene to cyclohexane4 and ethylene to ethane.5,6 It has now been shown that the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal decreases (1)
G. M. Schwah, Discuss. Faraday Soc., 8, 166 (1950).
(2) D. A. Dowden, J. Chem. Soc., 242 (1950).
(3) D. A. Dowden and P. Reynolds, Discuss. Faraday SOC.,8,184 (1950).
(4) W. K. Hall and P. H. Emmett, J. Phys. Chem., 62, 816 (1958).
(5) W. K. Hall and P. H. Emmett, J. Phys. Chem., 63, 1102 (1959).
(6) R. J. Best and W. W. Russell, J. Am. Chem. SOC.,76, 838 (1954).
(7) J. H. Sinfelt, Progr. Solid-State Chem., 10 (2), 55 (1975).
(8) N. F. Mott and H. Jones, Theories of the Properties of Metals and (9) D. H. Seib and W. E. Spicer, Phys. Reu. Lett., 20, 1441 (1968).
(10) C. D. Gelatt and H. Ehrenreich, Phys. Reu. B, 10, 398 (1974).
(11)
P. Soven, Phys. Reu., 156,
809 (1967).
(12) B. Velicky, S. Kirkpatrick, and H. Ehrenreich, Phys. Reu., 175,(13) W. M. H. Sachtler and P. van der Plank, Surf. Sei., 18,62 (1969).
(14) W. M. Sachtler, LeVide, 164, 67 (1973).
(15)
J. H. Sinfelt, J.
L. Carter, and D. J. C. Yates, J .  Catal., 24, 283
(16) J. H. Sinfelt, A. E. Barnett, and J.
L. Carter, US.
Patent 3,617,518 (17) J. H. Sinfelt, J. Catal., 29, 308 (1973).
(18) J. H. Sinfelt, Y. L. Lam, J. A. Cusumano, and A. E. Barnett, J.
(19) V. Ponec and W. M. H. Sachtler, J. Catal., 24, 250 (1972).
(20) J. M. Beelen, V. Ponec, and W. M. H. Sachtler,
J.
Catal., 28,376 (21) J. H. Sinfelt, Chem. Eng. News, 50, 18 (July 3, 1972).
Alloys, Oxford University Press, London, 1936. 747 (1968).
(1972).
(1971).
Catal., 42, 227 (1976). 11973). 16 Sinfelt markedly the activity of the latter for the rupture of carbon-carbon bonds in hydrogenolysis reactions of hydrocarbons, but has a much smaller effect on other hydrocarbon reactions such as hydrogenation and dehydrogenation.1518 While an electronic factor would in general be expected to influence the selectivity as well as the activity of bimetallic catalysts, the recent work indicates that purely geometric factors at a surface may play a crucial role in determining selectivity. If one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive than the latter to inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. Fur- thermore, in systems of a group 8 metal and a group 1B metal, the latter may concentrate strongly in the sur- face, so that its influence may be dramatic even at very low concentrations. In general, the surface composition of a bimetallic catalyst cannot be assumed to be identical with the bulk composition, as recent work in this field has clearly hown.l- For a bimetallic catalyst to be of interest for in- dustrial applications, it is necessary that it be prepared in a high surface area form and that it be resistant to loss of surface area during use. Dispersing it on a carrier provides an effective approach to the problem. The resulting catalyst is called a bimetallic cluster rather than an alloy, since systems of interest include metallic combinations which do not form alloys in the bulk.15s21 The more general term polymetallic cluster is used in referring to any cluster composed of atoms of two or more metals, and hence includes a bimetallic cluster as a special case. The dispersion, defined as the fraction of the atoms in a cluster which are present in the surface, depends on the system and conditions of preparation. In some cases the dispersion approaches unity. The clusters are then extremely small, of the order of 10 A in size, or perhaps possess a two-di- mensional character. Research in our laboratory on systems of this type has culminated in the development of a new reforming catalyst21,22 which has been applied extensively in commercial operations. The reforming process is important for the production of high an- tiknock quality motor gasolines from petroleum naphtha., Surface Composition of Bimetallic Catalysts Evidence that surface and bulk compositions are different in the case of nickel-copper alloys has recently been obtained from hydrogen chemisorption stud- ies,15.25,26 and is based on the observation that strong chemisorption of hydrogen does not occur on copper.
The addition of only a few percent of copper to nickel decreases the amount of strongly chemisorbed hydrogen severalfold, which suggests that the concentration of copper in the surface is much greater than in the bulk.
The strongly chemisorbed hydrogen refers to the amount which remains on the surface after evacuation at room temperature. The data in Figure 1 suggest that copper is the predominant component in the surface of nickel-copper alloys containing as little as 5 atom % (22) R. R. Cecil, W. S. Kmak, J.
H. Sinfelt, and L. U
.
Chambers, Proc.,(23) J. H. Sinfelt, Adu. Chem. Eng., 5 ,  37 (1964).
(24) J. H. Sinfelt, Annu. Reu. Muter. Sei., 2, 641 (1972).
(25) P. van der Plank and W.
M. H. Sachtler, J .  Catal.,
7,300 (1967).
(26) D. A. Cadenhead and N. J.
Wagner, J.
Phys. Chen.,72,2775 (1968).
Diu. Refin., Am. Pet. Inst., 52, 203 (1972).
Accounts of Chemical Research 1
I
I
I
I
I I
A I
A T O M  *
l a
COPPER
Figure 1. The chemisorption of hydrogen on copper-nickel catalysts at room temperature as a funct,ion of composition. The chemisorbed hydrogen refers to the amount that is retained on the surface after 10-min evacuation at room temperature following completion of an adsorption isotherm.16,35 copper. The surface areas of the catalysts in Figure 1 are of the order of 1 m2/g (approximately one metal atom out of a thousand is a surface atom).
In the nickel-copper alloys just considered, the two components were completely miscible, since the alloys were equilibrated at a sufficiently high temperature in their preparation, i.e., 450 C. If the nickel-copper system is equilibrated at a lower temperature, say 200 C, there is evidence of a miscibility gap.25 For com- positions within the gap, the system consists of two phases of constant composition in equilibrium, the relative amounts of the phases depending on the overall composition. The individual phases do not exist as separate particles, but instead the copper-rich phase forms a surface layer around the nickel-rich phase.25 A more extreme example of this type of behavior is the ruthenium-copper system, the components of which are essentially completely immiscible in the bulk. The crystal structures of the two metals are different, ru- thenium having a hexagonal-close-packed structure and copper a face-centered-cubic structure. While the two components are immiscible in the bulk, there is evi- dence of definite interaction between the two at a surface.l7Sls Ruthenium-copper samples prepared by precipitation from aqueous solutions of salts of the metals, followed by treatment in hydrogen at elevated temperatures, consist of bimetallic aggregates in which copper tends to cover the surface of the ruthenium.
Evidence for this is provided by hydrogen chemi- sorption data,18 as shown in Figure 2. In the catalysts of Figure 2 approximately one metal atom out of a hundred is a surface atom. The presence of copper results in a marked decrease in the extent of hydrogen chemisorption on ruthenium, of the order of tenfold for a copper content of 5 atom %. For the ruthenium- Vol. 10, 1977 Bimetallic
0.12 7
I
l o 5 0 3 0 3 ,- . :
104 6 x ,lo3 3 0 w 2 9 ;1 0 2 - t
P
V
10
N
. .
,- .
J
0.08
P
2 4 0 . 0 4 > 0 - - - - 8
HYDROGEN CHEMISORPTION
8 - 0 2 4 6 4
T
0 ' 1
" COPPER
Figure 2. Hydrogen chemisorption on ruthenium-copper ca- talysts as a function of copper content. The chemisorption data were obtained at room temperature and represent the strongly chemisorbed fraction, determined as in Figure l.lS copper aggregates in Figure 2, monolayer coverage by copper would occur at a copper content of about 1.5 atom 5% if all the copper existed as a single layer at the surface. The data suggest that a ruthenium-copper aggregate consists of small patches or clusters of copper on the surface of a crystallite composed essentially of pure ruthenium. In agreement with this picture, x-ray diffraction patterns exhibit lines for ruthenium but not for copper. The interaction between the two compo- nents is considered analogous to that which would exist in the chemisorption of copper on ruthenium.
In bimetallic systems the component with the lower heat of sublimation often accumulates in the surface.
In the case of group 8-group 1B metal combinations,this component is the group 1B metal. However, in the presence of a gas which interacts sufficiently strongly and selectively with the group 8 metal, the group 1B metal will not be the predominant component in the surface. Thus, in an oxygen atmosphere the surface of the nickel-gold system becomes rich in nickel rather than in gold.27 Similarly, in an atmosphere of carbon monoxide the surface of palladium-silver alloys be- comes enriched with palladium, whereas normally silver would be the predominant surface component.2s In addition to selective chemisorption methods, one may employ a variety of other methods to obtain in- formation on the surface compositions of alloys. These include work function  measurement, Auger spec- t r o s  o p y ,and photoelectron spectrocopy.
All of the methods at present have limitations from the viewpoint of obtaining precise quantitative information on surface composition, but can surely be regarded reliable for yielding qualitative or semiquantitative information.
Selectivity of Bimetallic Catalysts A striking example of catalytic specificity is provided by recent work on nickel-copper alloy catalysts in which two different reactions were investigated, the hydro- genolysis of ethane to methane and the dehydroge- nation of cyclohexane to benzene:15
C,H6 + H, -+ 2CH,
C,H,, + C6H6
+ 3H,
(27) F. L. Williams and M. Boudart, J. Catal., 30, 438 (1973).
(28) R. Bouwman, G. 3. M. Lippits, and W. M. H. Sachtler, J. Catal.,25, 350 (1972).
(29) W. M. H. Sachtler and G. J. H. Dorgelo, J. Catal., 4, 654 (1965).
(30) C. R. Helms. J. Catal.. 36. 114
1197.5).
I
I
(31) R. L. Park k d
J
.
E. Houston, J. Vac
Sci, Technol.,10,176 (1973).
Cluster Catalysis 17
CYCLOHEXANE DEHYDROGENATION -\
- - - -
A
m .
m m
a '\,
I
ETHANE HYDROGENOLYSIS
4 lt 1
I
I
I
I
1
I
I
0 20 40 60 80 100
ATOM % COPPER
Figure 3. Activities of copper-nickel alloy catalysts for the hydrogenolysis of ethane to methane and the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene. The activities refer to reaction rates at 316 "C. Ethane hydrogenolysis activities were obtained at ethane and hydrogen pressures of 0.030 and 0.20 atm, respectively.
Cyclohexane dehydrogenation activities were obtained at cy- clohexane and hydrogen pressures of 0.17 and 0.83 atm, re- spectively.15 The effect of adding copper to nickel is markedly different for the two reactions, as shown by the data on specific activities of a series of hickel-copper alloys in Figure 3. In the case of ethane hydrogenolysis, addition of as little as 5 atom 5% copper to the nickel decreases catalytic activity by three orders of magnitude. Further addition of copper continues to decrease the activity.
However, for cyclohexane dehydrogenation the initial increments of copper actually increase the catalytic activity of nickel. As the copper content of the alloy is increased beyond a few percent, the dehydrogenation activity is not affected much over a broad range of composition, exhibiting a marked decline only as the composition approaches pure copper.
In the hydrogenolysis of ethane on metals, it has been concluded that the ethane is chemisorbed with rupture of carbon-hydrogen bonds to form a hydrogen-deficient dicarbon surface residue, C2H,, which then undergoes rupture of the carbon-carbon bond to form monocarbon fragments on the  u r f a c e :   -
C,H6 *
C,H,(ads) + aH, C,H,(ads) + adsorbed C, fragments The adsorbed monocarbon fragments are then hy- drogenated to methane. The symbol ads refers to adsorbed species and the quantity a is equal to (6 - x ) / 2 .  It is visualized that both carbon atoms in the adsorbed intermediate C2H, form bonds with surface metal atoms, and that more than one surface metal (32) A. Cimino, M. Boudart, and H. S. Taylor, J. Phys. Chem., 58, 796 (33) J. H. Sinfelt, J. Catal., 27, 468 (1972).
(34) J.
H. Sinfelt, Adu. Catal., 23, 91 (1973).
(35) J. H. Sinfelt, Catal. Reu.-Sci. Eng., 9, 147 (1974).
(1954). 18 Sinfelt Accounts of Chemical Research 1 1
I
I
atom is involved in the bonding.
In a bimetallic combination of an inactive metal with a highly active metal, we may consider the possibility that the hydrogenolysis activity of the catalyst is de- pendent on the existence of sites comprising multiplets of active metal atoms (i.e., sites consisting of groups of adjacent active metal atoms). The term multiplet is taken from the work of Balandin.36 The term ensemble has been adopted by  other', in this context. As the required number of active metal atoms in a multiplet increases, the multiplet concentration becomes more sensitive to dilution of the surface with inactive metal atoms. If the latter concentrate markedly in the surface, as in the case of nickel-copper alloys, the presence of only a few percent in the alloy may decrease catalytic activity manyfold. According to this view, the only function of the surface copper atoms in nickel-copper catalysts is to dilute the nickel atoms and thus limit the number of multiplet nickel atom sites.While such a geometric interpretation is a very reasonable one and can account for a large inhibiting effect of copper on the hydrogenolysis activity of nickel,it is difficult to dismiss the possibility that electronic interaction between copper and nickel atoms may affect the catalysis. Such an interaction has been called a ligand effect by S a  h t l e r .   , In view of the low ability of copper relative to nickel to chemisorb by- drocarbons, the presence of copper could decrease the strength of adsorption of hydrocarbon species. In ethane hydrogenolysis, the strength of bonding between the two carbon atoms in the chemisorbed intermediate might be expected to vary in an inverse manner with the strength of bonding of the carbon atoms to the metal. One would then conclude that rupture of the carbon-carbon bond would be inhibited by a decrease in the strength of adsorption accompanying addition of copper to nickel. If carbon-carbon rupture is rate limiting, the rate of hydrogenolysis should then de- crease.The markedly different effect of copper on the catalytic activity of nickel for cyclohexane dehydro- genation, as compared to ethane hydrogenolysis, is rationalized as follows. There is the possibility that the reaction does not require a site consisting of a multiplet of active nickel atoms, and is therefore much less sensitive to the presence of copper atoms in the surface than a reaction requiring such multiplets, While this possibility can account for the absence of a sharp de- cline in activity as copper is added to nickel, it does not explain why copper-rich alloys have dehydrogenation activities as high as or higher than that of pure nickel.If addition of copper to nickel decreases the strength of adsorption of hydrocarbons, and the rate-determining step is desorption of the benzene product, the activity of a catalytic site would increase and compensate for a decrease in the number of such sites. However, it is not necessary that desorption of the product be rate limiting. It is required only that the rate-determining step be one which is adversely affected by an increase in the strength of adsorption. The range of composition over which the rate is essentially constant may be (36) A. A. Balandin, Adu. Catal., 10, 96 (1958). (37)
D. A. Dowden, Proc. Int. Congr. Catal., 5th, 1972, 621 (1973).
(38) Y. Soma-Nota and W. M. H. Sachtler, J. Catal., 32, 315 (1974).
Vol. 10. 1977 Bimetallic Cluster Catalysis 19 /* / * *
I
*/
I
I
*
I
1
L
I
I *
3 1  L
0 c5 0 10 STROVGLY CHEYISORBED H2, cc(STP)/m2 Figure 5. Correlation of ethane hydrogenolysis activity and amount of strongly chemisorbed hydrogen for ruthenium-copper catalysts. The ethane hydrogenolysis activities are rates at 245 C and ethane and hydrogen pressures of 0.030 and 0.20 atm,respectively. The amount of strongly chemisorbed hydrogen at room temperature was determined as in Figures 1 and 2.18 cyclohexane to benzene correlate inversely with strong hydrogen chemisorption.
In general, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal has been observed to decrease hydro- genolysis activity markedly but to have a much smaller effect on such other reactions as dehydrogenation,hydrogenation,and isomerization of  hydrocarbon." Selectivity is clearly an important aspect of hydro- carbon catalysis by alloys.
Bimetallic Cluster Catalysts A supported bimetallic catalyst can be prepared simply by wetting a suitable carrier such as silica with an aqueous solution of salts of the two metals of in- terest. The material is then dried and contacted with a stream of hydrogen at a temperature high enough to accomplish reduction of the metal precursors to the metallic state. This procedure results in the formation of very small metal clusters dispersed on the surface of the carrier. The nature of these metallic entities is the question of interest. Will the individual clusters be monometallic or will there be mixing of atoms of the different metals in the form of bimetallic clusters? One might expect on purely statistical grounds that the individual clusters would contain atoms of both metals.
This expectation is supported by experiment, even for cases in which the individual metal components exhibit very low miscibility in the blk.l,O Examples of in- teresting systems involving components of extremely limited miscibility are ruthenium-copper and osmi- um-copper supported on silica. Catalysts containing 1 wt % of either ruthenium or osmium and varying amounts of copper have been investigated.17 The at- omic ratio of copper to the group 8 metal ranged from (39) V. Ponec and
W. M. H. Sachtler,
Proc. Int. Congr. Catal., 5th,1972,(40)
J. H.
Sinfelt, Proc. Int. Congr. Catal., 5th, 1972,653 (1973). 645 (1973).
Ru-Cu
I
I
I
l o t i
Ethane Hydrogenolyiis a \
P
;10-31 1 1
I
I
I
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
- Atomic Ratio, Cu/Ru >
I
I
I
1 1
I
I
i os-cu i , Ethane Hydrogenolysis 10-2 u 0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0 8
1.0
Atomic Ratio, Ch>/Os Figure 6. The specific activities of silica-supported ruthmi- um-copper and osmium-copper catalysts for ethane hydroge- nolysis. The activities are compared at 245 C and ethane and hydrogen pressures of 0.030 and 0.20 atm, respectively. The catalysts all contain 1 wt % of either ruthenium or osmium and varying amounts of copper.17>35 0 to 1. The degree of metal dispersion was high in all of these catalysts, as evidenced by the fact that x-ray diffraction scans showed no lines due to the metals. By contrast, a sample containing 1 wt % copper alone on silica gave diffraction lines characteristic of metallic copper with a crystallite size of 200 A.
The absence of lines due to copper in the case of the ruthenium-copper and osmium-copper catalysts indicates that the ru- thenium and osmium interact with the copper, with the result that large copper crystallites are not formed. The observations are consistent with the existence of ru- thenium-copper and osmium-copper clusters on the surface of the carrier.
Direct experimental verification of the bimetallic cluster concept is complicated by limitations in the ability of physical methods to obtain structural in- formation on highly dispersed systems. In such a system, however, a catalytic reaction can serve as a sensitive probe to obtain evidence of interaction be- tween the atoms of the two metallic components. For supported bimetallic combinations of a group 8 and a group 1B metal, the hydrogenolysis of ethane to methane is a very useful reaction for this purpose. In applying ethane hydrogenolysis as a probe to establish interaction between copper and either ruthenium or osmium on a carrier, one simply looks for a marked suppression of hydrogenolysis activity of the group 8 metal when copper is present.
Data on hydrogenolysis activities of the rutheni- um-copper and osmium-copper catalysts described in the previous paragraphs are shown in Figure 6.
A
measure of the number of surface sites in each catalyst is provided by data on the chemisorption of hydrogen at room temperature, each surface site corresponding to one atom of adsorbed hydrogen. This makes it possible to determine specific activity, i.e., the catalytic activity per surface site. Such a definition of specific activity is useful for normalizing the catalytic activity data, but should not be interpreted to mean that a hydrocarbon molecule undergoing reaction requires only 20 Sinfelt Accounts of Chemical Research C   a ,  *
L
% . , Figure 7. Influence of the state of dispersion of ruthenium-copper catalysts on the relationship between ethane hydrogenolysis activity and catalyst composition. The large ruthenium-copper aggregates have a metal dispersion of the order of 1%,while the highly dispersed ruthenium-copper clusters have a metal dis- persion of the order of 50%.18 a simple surface site of the type defined by the hy- drogen chemisorption data. The data of Figure 6 provide strong evidence of interaction between copper and the group 8 metal, and thus support the bimetallic cluster concept. Since incorporation of copper with the group 8 metal decreases the hydrogenolysis activity markedly, the metal components are clearly not isolated from each other on the carrier.
It is of interest to consider how the state of dispersion of ruthenium-copper catalysts affects the relationship between ethane hydrogenolysis activity and catalyst composition.18 A comparison of large ruthenium- copper aggregates with highly dispersed ruthenium- copper clusters is given in Figure 7. The dispersion,defined as the percentage of metal atoms present in the surface, is of the order of 1% for the large rutheni- um-copper aggregates and of the order of 50% for the ruthenium-copper clusters. The presence of one atom of copper per atom of ruthenium decreases the hy- drogenolysis activity of ruthenium by 1000-fold in the case of the highly dispersed clusters. The same in- hibiting effect of the copper is found with the large ruthenium-copper aggregates when the amount of copper is only 1-2% of the amount of ruthenium in the catalyst. A similar conclusion is reached when hydrogen chemisorption data on these systems are compared.
Clearly, the highly dispersed ruthenium-copper clusters require a much higher atomic ratio of copper to ru- thenium than the large ruthenium-copper aggregates to achieve a given inhibiting effect. The required ratios differ by a factor approximately equal to the ratio of the metal dispersions of the catalysts. This indicates that the copper in a ruthenium-copper aggregate is confined to the surface, which is consistent with the extremely low miscibility of the two metals in the bulk state. If one envisions a series of ruthenium-copper aggregates of varying size, each comprising a monolayer of copper on a ruthenium core, the atomic ratio of copper to ruthenium in an aggregate will increase with decreasing aggregate size. From this simple consid- eration, it is readily seen how a highly dispersed bi- metallic cluster may have compositions far outside the range of those possible in a bulk solid solution of the two metals.
As a result of their low hydrogenolysis activities,bimetallic clusters of a group 8 and a group 1B metal are more selective than the pure group 8 metal for a reaction such as the conversion of cyclohexanes to ar0matis.l However, they are not the only types of bimetallic clusters of interest. Others include combi- nations of two group 8 metals, e.g., platinum-palladium,platinum-rhodium, and platinm-iridium.
Our present knowledge of bimetallic clusters is derived largely from studies of their chemisorption and catalytic properties. However, in the case of plati- num-iridium catalysts, x-ray diffraction has proved to be very useful in providing direct evidence for the existence of platinum-iridium clusters in the approx- imate size range of 25-50 A.41 As already pointed out,it becomes increasingly difficult to characterize such systems by conventional physical methods as the degree of metal dispersion increases. In recent years, there have been advances in the area of x-ray absorption spectroscopy which hold much promise for this purpose.
It has been shown that analysis of extended x-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) can yield structural information on highly dispersed, noncrystalline ma- t e r i a l  .
The application of EXAFS to bimetallic catalysts is currently being investigated by the author and his  collaborator.
I a m  pleased to acknowledge the contributions of my co- workers, A.
E.
Barnett, J. L. Carter, J. A. Cusumano, Y.
L. Lam,
G. H. Via,
and D. J. C. Yates, to the research discussed in this article.
(41) J. H. Sinfelt, U.S. Patent 3,953,368 (1976).
(42) D. E. Sayers, F. W. Lytle, and E. A. Stern, Phys. Reu. Lett., 27,(43) F. W. Lytle, G. H. Via, and J.
H. Sinfelt, Prep.,
Diu. Pet. Chem.,1204 (1971).
Am. Chem. Soc., 21 (2), 366 (1976).


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 