CO2-ODH of C3H8 and C4H10
Just as experimental and DFT approaches were applied to reactions of CO2 + C2H6, a similar treatment can be done for CO2 + C3H8 at 823 K. The catalysts examined included bimetallic systems comprising a precious metal (Pt or Pd) and a non-precious metal (Fe, Co or Ni), and combinations of non-precious metals, all supported on CeO2 (ref.101). The results of steady-state flow reactions identified Fe3Ni1/CeO2 and Ni3Pt1/CeO2 as promising catalysts for CO2-ODH and DRP of C3H8, respectively102 (Fig. 8). The average metal particle sizes of the Ni3Pt/CeO2 (~2.3-nm particles, from TEM) and Fe3Ni1/CeO2 (<2-nm particles, from in situ XRD) systems are small. Fe3Ni1/CeO2 exhibits 58% C3H6 selectivity with good stability, while Ni3Pt/CeO2 is a highly active DRP catalyst with 96% selectivity for CO. Additionally, the amount of CO produced by Fe3Ni1 exceeds that expected from C3H6 + H2O (as a result of one-step CO2-ODH and subtracting contributions from the RWGS reaction), indicating that some CO comes from the reverse Boudouard reaction and/or over-oxidation of alkenes or lighter components. Unlike oxidations with O2, which produce CO2 due to over-oxidation, the CO2-ODH reaction results in a net reduction of CO2 because CO2 is consumed instead of being produced. Plotting CO2 conversion against CO selectivity for Fe3Ni1 and Ni3Pt1 can also clarify the intrinsic activity of the catalysts for CO2-ODHP or DRP. In the case of Ni3Pt1, the high value of the y-intercept of CO selectivity (97%) suggests that it is a typical reforming catalyst, while the same cannot be said for Fe3Ni1 (22.2%). Additional experiments showed differences among the C3H6 yields of Fe3Ni (1.6%) and the respective monometallic catalysts (0.4% for Ni and 0.2% for Fe), indicating that the two elements operate synergistically.
According to in situ XANES measurements, Ni3Pt/CeO2 features Pt0, while both Fe3Ni/CeO2 and Ni3Pt/CeO2 include Ni0. By contrast, Fe in Fe3Ni/CeO2 exists in oxidized forms that were independently confirmed by in situ EXAFS, which suggested the presence of Fe–O–Fe and Fe–O groups under reaction conditions102. Of the other bimetallic systems examined, only FeCo catalysts illustrated a preference to form C3H6, albeit before undergoing a rapid deactivation. In situ XANES results showed that Fe3Co1 consists mainly of Co0 and oxidized Fe, but the extent of Fe oxidation was lower than that in Fe3Ni1, which may be the cause of the lower observed steady-state activity and stability of Fe3Co1/CeO2.
The knowledge that Fe3Ni1/CeO2 comprises Ni0 and oxidized Fe motivated a DFT study into both bulk-terminated Fe3Ni(111) and the FeO–Ni(111) interface. The calculations illustrated that both systems should energetically favour C–H scission (as part of CO2-ODH) over C–C scission (for DRP), although opposite behaviour was predicted for Pt-terminated Ni3Pt(111). These results also show that the binding configurations of all intermediates on Fe3Ni(111) and Pt-terminated Ni3Pt(111) are similar, and all intermediates bind more strongly to the Fe3Ni(111) surface. Thus, Pt-terminated Ni3Pt(111) binds *O only moderately strongly, such that it can react rapidly with *CxHy to form *OCxHy, an oxygenated intermediate in reforming. Conversely, Fe3Ni(111) binds *O strongly, such that the group remains on the surface and facilitates selective C–H scission and the formation of C3H6. Overall, the combined approach of flow reactor experiments (including kinetic measurements), in situ and ex situ characterization, and DFT calculations allows chemists to identify and understand the intrinsic activity of heterogeneous catalysts for the CO2-ODH of C3H8.
The approach to studying conversions of CO2 and C2H6 or C3H8 over FexNiy/CeO2 catalysts is, of course, also applicable when C4H10 is used as the alkane feed at 873 K. The reaction pathways are similarly affected by the catalyst composition and the choice of support103, with flow reactions illustrating that Fe3Ni1/CeO2 favours 1,3-butadiene formation, while Fe1Ni3/CeO2 favours DR. Supporting Fe3Ni1 on different oxides illustrates that highly reducible supports with mobile lattice O atoms, such as CeO2 and CeO2–ZrO2, favour the production of 1,3-butadiene, whereas ZrO2 suppresses oxidative dehydrogenation activity. According to thermogravimetric analysis and in situ XRD measurements, Fe3Ni1/CeO2 does not readily coke or experience surface metal agglomeration under reaction conditions, consistent with the results obtained for the reactions of CO2 and C3H8.
In situ XANES measurements of FexNiy/CeO2 catalysts indicate that its Ni centres are metallic, whereas Fe mainly exists as FeOx (ref.103). The linear combination fitting of data for Fe1Ni3/CeO2 indicates that Ni exists solely as Ni0, but only a third of the Fe species were reduced to Fe0, the remaining fraction being in the form of Fe2O3. For the Fe3Ni1 catalyst, 90% of the Ni sites were metallic and Fe exists as Fe0 (19%), FeO (7%), Fe3O4 (28%) and Fe2O3 (44%). DFT calculations of the oxidative dehydrogenation and reforming pathways on Ni(111) and FeOx/Ni(111) surfaces predict that Ni(111) should favour C–C scission, while FeOx/Ni(111) could promote C–H cleavage. Over Ni(111), the initial step of C–C cleavage is more favourable than the corresponding step in C–H scission. At the FeO–Ni(111) interface, the initial steps in C–H and C–C cleavage are in competition, but the subsequent two steps of C–H scission are more energetically favourable and afford surface-bound 1,3-butadiene. Overall, flow reactor studies of FexNiy/CeO2 catalysts for the CO2-ODH of C4H10 provide insight into the effect of oxide supports. Two major deactivation pathways — coking and metal agglomeration — do not occur when FexNiy catalysts are supported on CeO2 during the CO2-ODH of C4H10. More importantly, the trends identified in experimental results and DFT calculations are similar to those observed using C2H6 and C3H8, suggesting that the lessons learned concerning the CO2-ODH of light alkanes can be generalized to more complex hydrocarbons.
Challenges and opportunities
The tandem reactions of CO2 reduction and CO2-ODH of light alkanes have the potential to satisfy global alkene production while consuming underutilized fractions of shale gas and lowering net anthropogenic CO2 emissions. This chemistry presents several challenges, such as the need for a selective bifunctional catalyst that can activate CO2 and selectively transform the alkane into the respective alkene, even at temperatures at which side reactions are highly thermodynamically favourable. At temperatures above 823 K, the reactions of CO2 with alkanes may simultaneously occur through two distinct pathways: CO2-ODH or DR. The toxicity and instability of previously examined oxide catalysts motivate the development of environmentally benign CO2-ODH catalysts that are highly selective and stable. This Review has, thus, focused on catalysts bearing less toxic metals and how we can study them using flow reactor experiments, in situ characterization and DFT calculations. In this way, we will create a design platform for safer catalysts that are intrinsically active and selective for the CO2-ODH of light alkanes.
Future research into the CO2-ODH of light alkanes should focus on the design of catalysts that give rise to improved alkene yields. The combined experimental and theoretical methods discussed here can be used to identify descriptors such as oxidation state, nature of oxygenated intermediates and *O binding energy. These parameters indicate how the selectivity and activity of a CO2-ODH catalyst arise from its mechanism of action. Addressing the dependence of alkene selectivity on the binding strength and configuration of all intermediates can clarify the distinct functions and, possibly, the nature of active sites that are necessary for a promising CO2-ODH catalyst. In situ characterization techniques can help identify active sites under reaction conditions. The identification and subsequent targeted synthesis of particular active sites are among the key steps necessary to pave the way towards large-scale commercialization.
The nature of the support influences the CO2-ODH mechanism because it can influence how a metal catalyst binds and activates CO2 and alkanes. Systems that feature a reducible oxide support such as CeO2 warrant further investigation, as do systems featuring metal-modified carbide catalysts. We have emphasized here the importance of redox activity and lattice O atom mobility in CO2 activation, but the correlation between O storage capacity/mobility and alkene yields is not well understood. Further examining the role of oxide supports in CO2-ODH catalysts will enable a more rational optimization of both activity and selectivity for alkene products. Thus, it is of interest to target high-surface-area oxide supports with high concentrations of sites that enable CO2 activation87.
CO2-ODH reactions will ultimately produce a mixture of alkenes, H2O and CO, which are present with the unreacted CO2 and alkane feed. Once we have identified suitable catalysts and conditions, it will be necessary to address a further problem — separating the gaseous species. Thus, scale-up will require creative solutions in the form of reactive separation methods or process designs, the latter taking the form of novel reactors or separators. To make a more substantial dent in anthropogenic CO2 emissions, it would be highly desirable to directly use CO2-ODH product mixtures as feeds for useful chemistries. For instance, it would be attractive to oxidatively couple CO2 with alkenes to produce acrylic acids and acrylate in a one-step process that would replace an energy-intensive, two-step methodology (alkene to acrolein, followed by acrolein to acrylate)13. Equally ambitious would be the heterogeneous catalysis of C2H4 hydroformylation104. However, heterogeneous hydroformylation chemistries typically result in poorer performance than their well-established homogeneous counterparts, due to a lack of fundamental mechanistic understanding of heterogeneous catalysts.
The one-pot synthesis of oxygenates from CO2 and light alkanes105, using a single or consecutive catalyst bed arrangement, is highly desirable because it facilitates reactive separations by producing value-added oxygenates such as C3H7OH (ref.106). Another possible scheme, which could run under similar conditions to CO2-ODH, involves tandem reactions of CO2-assisted oxidative dehydrogenation and aromatization of light alkanes. The direct transformation of alkanes into aromatics without the need for naphtha is economically attractive and also increases the consumption of CO2 per mole of value-added product, which is more easily separated because the aromatics typically exist as liquids.
Overall, CO2 reduction in tandem with light-alkane transformations over specialized bifunctional catalysts has the potential to produce alkenes while eliminating a greenhouse gas. Before these reactions can be implemented on a large scale, we must address challenges such as catalyst development, finding optimal synthesis techniques and product separation. We have focused here on how to characterize catalyst platforms through combined experimental and theoretical efforts, which can provide the crucial mechanistic understanding required to expedite the development of selective and stable CO2-ODH catalysts.
