Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
Chemistry, spectroscopy and the role of supported
vanadium oxides in heterogeneous catalysis
Bert M. Weckhuysen∗, Daphne E. Keller
Department of Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute, Utrecht University,
Sorbonnelaan 16, 3508 TB Utrecht, The Netherlands
Abstract
Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are active in a wide range of applications. In this review, an overview is given of the
current knowledge available about vanadium oxide-based catalysts. The review starts with the importance of vanadium in
heterogeneous catalysis, a discussion of the molecular structure of vanadium in water and in the solid state and an overview of
the spectroscopic techniques enabling to study the chemistry of supported vanadium oxides. In the second part, it will be shown
that advanced spectroscopic tools can be used to obtain detailed information about the coordination environment and oxidation
state of vanadium oxides during each stage of the life-span of a heterogeneous catalyst. Three topics will be discussed: (1)
the molecular structure of supported vanadium oxide catalysts under hydrated, dehydrated and reduced conditions, including
the parameters, which inﬂuence the molecular structures formed at the surface of the support oxide; (2) elucidation of the
active surface vanadium oxide during the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde, the reaction mechanism and the vanadium
oxide–support effect; and (3) deactivation of ﬂuid catalytic cracking (FCC) catalysts by migration of vanadium oxides and
the development of a method preventing the structural breakdown of zeolites by trapping the mobile vanadium oxides in an
aluminum oxide coating.
© 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Supported vanadium oxides; Heterogeneous catalysis; Spectroscopy; Vanadium oxide-support effect
1. Introduction
Vanadium was discovered in 1801 in Mexico by the
Spanish mineralogist A.M. del Rio, who considered
it to be present in a particular brownish lead mineral
[1–3]. He named the new element erythronium. How-
ever, the French chemist H.V. Collet-Descotils incor-
rectly declared that this new element was only impure
chromium. Later on, in 1830, the Swedish chemist
N.G. Sefström rediscovered the element and named
it in honor of Vanadis, the old Norse name for the
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail address: b.m.weckhuysen@chem.uu.nl
(B.M. Weckhuysen).
Scandinavian goddess Freyja—a fertility goddess—
because of its beautiful multicolored compounds. In
1831, vanadium was unambiguously identiﬁed as the
originally named erythronium element of del Rio
and the lead mineral is now known as vanadinite
(Pb5(VO4)3Cl).
Vanadium is one of the most abundant and widely
distributed metals in the earth’s crust and is found
in about 152 different minerals, in certain iron ores
and also in the form of organic complexes in some
crude oils, e.g. V–porphyrin complexes [4,5]. The ma-
jor sources of vanadium are titaniferrous magnetite
ores from mines in Australia, China, Russia and South
Africa. The current level of the annual production of
vanadium in the world is 38,000 tonnes. About 80%
0920-5861/02/$ – see front matter © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII: S0920-5861(02)00323-1
26
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
of the vanadium produced is used as steel additive,
as it makes steel shock- and vibration-resistant. Vana-
dium is also an essential element in aerospace indus-
try, as it guarantees low density, high strength and
resistance to high operating temperatures and stress.
Titanium–aluminum–vanadium alloys are used in, e.g.
aero-engine gas turbines and in the undercarriages of
planes. Other uses of vanadium are in ceramics and
electronics. Vanadium salts are well known for the
brilliant orange and blue colors in ceramics or in dyes
for textiles and leather.
The most dominant non-metallurgical use of vana-
dium is in catalysis, which represents about 5% of the
annual production of vanadium. Table 1 summarizes
some industrial catalytic processes based on vanadium
oxides. Vanadium oxide-based catalysts are used in
the manufacture of important chemicals (e.g. sulfuric
acid, phthalic anhydride) and in the reduction of en-
vironmental pollution (e.g. nitrogen oxides from ﬂue
gas of power plants) and is the most important metal
used in metal oxide catalysis [6–13]. The importance
of vanadium in supported metal oxide catalysis is fur-
ther underlined by Fig. 1. This ﬁgure summarizes the
number of papers (expressed as a percentage of the
total number of papers) of several transition metals in
the ﬁeld of metal oxide catalysis, which can be found
in the open literature [14].
Most catalysts based on vanadium oxide consist of
a vanadium oxide phase deposited on the surface of an
oxide support, such as SiO2, Al2O3, TiO2 and ZrO2.
Supporting a metal oxide on the surface of another
oxide was initially proposed to improve the catalytic
activity of the active metal oxide phase due to a gain
in surface area and mechanical strength [7,15]. The
support was considered as inert substance that pro-
vided a high surface to carry the active metal oxide
Table 1
Industrial catalytic processes using vanadium oxides [6–13]
Industrial process
Catalyst material
Oxidation of SO2 to SO3 in the
production of sulfuric acid
V2O5
Oxidation of benzene to maleic anhydride
V2O5
Oxidation of naphthalene to
phthalic anhydride
V, Mo oxides
Oxidation of butene to phthalic anhydride
V, P oxides
Oxidation of o-xylene to phthalic anhydride
V, Ti oxides
Selective reduction of NOx with NH3
V2O5/WO3/TiO2
Fig. 1. Overview of the importance of vanadium in supported
metal oxide catalysis. The numbers are based on an extensive open
literature search in the period 1967–2000.
component or to improve the mechanical strength of
the catalyst material. However, during the last decade
catalyst scientists have unambiguously shown that the
activity and selectivity of supported metal oxide cata-
lysts are signiﬁcantly affected by the properties of the
support oxide material. This is generally known as the
metal oxide–support effect, although its exact origin
and mechanism of operation is still unclear.
The fundamental basis for the catalytic perfor-
mances of supported vanadium oxides lies in the
variability in geometric and electronic structure of
surface vanadium oxides. Fundamental knowledge
about the chemistry of supported vanadium oxides
is of key importance in heterogeneous catalysis and
spectroscopic tools are necessary to built up this
knowledge. In this review paper, the fundamental ad-
vances into the surface chemistry and spectroscopy
of vanadium oxides in heterogeneous catalysts of the
last decade are emphasized. No exhaustive discussion
of all the catalytic applications of supported vanadium
oxides available in the open literature will be given
(Table 2) [16–59]. Rather, we want to develop fun-
damental concepts, which explain the differences in
chemistry of supported vanadium oxides during each
stage of the life-span of a heterogeneous catalyst, i.e.
synthesis, calcination, activation, catalytic operation
and deactivation. The review paper starts with a short
introduction on the molecular structures of vanadium
oxides in water and in the solid state. In the second
part, several spectroscopic methods for the character-
ization of supported vanadium oxides are discussed,
together with their potential and limitations. The
third part deals with an overview of the methods for
preparing supported vanadium oxide catalysts. The
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
27
Table 2
Overview of the reactions catalyzed by supported vanadium oxides
as described in the open literature
Catalytic reaction
References
Selective oxidation of alkanes and alkenes
[16,17]
Selective catalytic reduction of NOx with NH3
[18–20]
Oxidation of o-xylene to phthalic anhydride
[21,22]
Ammoxidation of aromatics and methylaromatics
[23–25]
Selective oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde
[26]
Oxidation of SO2
[27–29]
Decomposition of isopropylalcohol
[30]
Oxidation of aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons
[31,32]
Photo-oxidation of CO
[33]
Photo-isomerization of butene
[34]
Partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde
[35–37]
Oxidation of H2S
[38,39]
Synthesis of isobutyraldehyde from
methanol and ethanol
[40]
Selective oxidation of 4-methylanisole
[41]
Selective oxidation of p-methoxytoluene
[42]
Alkylation of aldehydes with methanol
[43]
Oxidative coupling of methane
[44]
Synthesis of 2,6-dimethylphenol from methanol
and cyclohexanone
[45]
Synthesis of isobutyraldehyde from methanol and
n-propylalcohol
[46,47]
Total oxidation of benzene
[48]
Dehydrocyclodimerization of isobutene to xylene
[49]
Polymerization of oleﬁns
[50]
Selective oxidation of alkanes with peroxides
[51]
Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes
[52–54]
Isomerization of m-xylene
[55]
Epoxidation of alkenes with peroxides
[56]
Hydroxylation of phenol
[57]
Direct conversion of methane to aromatics
[58,59]
paper continues with a discussion of three examples,
in which spectroscopic tools are of paramount impor-
tance to unravel the surface chemistry and reactivity
of vanadium oxides in heterogeneous catalysis. The
paper ends with some concluding remarks and a look
into the future.
2. Molecular structures of vanadium oxides in
water and in the solid state
Supported vanadium oxides show chemical and
electronic properties, which are entirely different
from those found for unsupported vanadium pentox-
ide (V2O5), in aqueous media and in the solid state
[1–3]. In order to fully appreciate these differences,
a brief overview of the molecular structure of vana-
dium oxides in water and in the solid state has to be
given. Vanadium has the electron conﬁguration [Ar]
3d3 4s2. The main oxidation states are +2, +3, +4
and +5. V5+ (d0) can be present in tetrahedral (VO4),
pentahedral (VO5) and octahedral (VO6) coordination
environment and tends to form polyoxoanions. V4+
(d1) is also stable and is mostly present in square
pyramidal or pseudo-octahedral coordination as an
isolated cation. Other oxidation states such as V3+
(d2) and V2+ (d3) are less stable and only present
under reducing conditions.
2.1. Molecular structures of vanadium oxides in
aqueous media
The most important oxidation states in aqueous so-
lution are V5+ and V4+. The speciﬁc vanadium ox-
ide species that can exist depend on the solution pH
and the vanadium oxide concentration. This is illus-
trated for V5+ in Fig. 2, which shows the different
regions in which a particular vanadium oxide species
is stable [60]. This scheme is generally known as the
Pourbaix diagram. V5+ hydrolyses in a very complex
way and 12 different species—monomeric as well as
polymeric species—are known to exist in aqueous so-
lutions. V4+ is particularly stable as the vanadyl ion
(VO2+), which is one of the most stable oxy-metal
ions. In water it appears in the form of a tetragonal
bipyramidal coordination (VO(H2O)52+). Other V4+
species hydrolyze to give dimeric species, even in di-
lute solutions (10−3 M). V2+ as well as V3+ are un-
stable and are oxidized by water and air, respectively.
Little is known about the V2+ species, while V3+ ions
are present as hexa-aquo species in acidic solutions.
2.2. Molecular structures of vanadium oxides
in the solid state
The principal vanadium oxides are V2O5, VO2,
V2O3 and VO. In these oxides, the formal oxidation
state of vanadium decreases from +5 to +2. Other
more exotic vanadium oxide compounds are mixed
valence oxides, such as V3O5, V4O7 and V7O13, and
have the general formula VnO2n−1.
V2O5 is an orange-red and acidic oxide, in which
the vanadium ions are present in distorted octahe-
drons. The structure of V2O5 is often approximated
28
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
Fig. 2. The Pourbaix diagram of vanadium, expressing the vanadium speciation as a function of pH and potential at 25 ◦C and an ionic
strength of 1 M.
by zigzag ribbons of square pyramids of VO5. Each
vanadium atom and its ﬁve nearest oxygen neigh-
bors create VO5-pyramids, which share their corners,
building double chains along the b-direction. These
chains are connected by their edges and the resulting
layers are stacked along the c-direction. As a result,
a vanadium oxide unit consists of an octahedrally co-
ordinated VO6, with three distinct vanadium–oxygen
bond distances (Figs. 3 and 4d) [6]. The vanadium
ion is slightly displaced from the basal plane towards
the apex of the pyramid, which creates a strong and
short V=O(1) bond of 1.58 Å. The V–O(3) distance
in opposite direction is much longer (2.79 Å). The
four V–O(2) bonds to the oxygen in the basal plane
have a length of 1.83 Å. V2O5 is only slightly solu-
ble in water, resulting in a pale yellow solution with
some colloidal character. It also dissolves in NaOH
to give colorless solutions containing the vanadate
ion, VO43−. On acidiﬁcation, a complicated series
of reactions occur involving the formation of hy-
droxyanions and polyanions (e.g. decavanadate), as
shown in Fig. 2. In very strong acid solutions, the
dioxovanadium or pervanadyl ion (VO2+) is formed.
The dark blue VO2 oxide is obtained by mild reduc-
tion of V2O5 and has a rutile-like structure distorted
by the presence of pairs of vanadium atoms bonded
together. One bond, the V=O bond, is much shorter
than the others in the VO6 unit. It is an amphoteric
oxide, dissolving in non-oxidizing acids to give the
Fig. 3. Molecular structure of V5+ in V2O5 crystals indicating
three different V–O distances.
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
29
Fig. 4. Possible molecular conﬁgurations for supported vanadium oxides (with S the support cation): (a) isolated vanadium oxide species;
(b) dimeric vanadium oxide species; (c) two-dimensional vanadium oxide chains; (d) V2O5 crystals.
blue VO2+, which appears in water in the form of a
tetragonal bipyramid of the form VO(H2O)52+. In al-
kali media, it will transform to the yellow to brown
V4O92−or at high pH to VO44−. The black V2O3 has
a corundum structure and is basic. It is obtained by
reduction of V2O5 with hydrogen or carbon monox-
ide, but is often oxygen deﬁcient without change in
structure. It dissolves in aqueous acids to give blue
or green V3+ solutions, which are strongly reducing.
From these solutions addition of hydroxyl ions gives
the hydrous oxide, which is very easily oxidized in air.
The grey-colored VO or V2O2 has somewhat metallic
behavior and possess a defect rock-salt structure. It is
prone to non-stoichiometry and can dissolve in min-
eral acids to give violet air-sensitive V2+ solutions.
The oxidation of V2+ by air is complicated and ap-
pears to proceed in part by direct oxidation to VO2+
and in part by way of an intermediate species of type
VOV4+.
3. Characterization methods for supported
vanadium oxides
The characterization of the molecular structures of
supported vanadium oxides is rather involved, since
deposition of this metal oxide on an inorganic oxide
can result in
(1) isolated vanadium ions;
(2) dimeric or polymeric species;
(3) chains of vanadium ions building up a two-
dimensional over-layer of supported vanadium
oxides;
(4) three-dimensional vanadium oxides (e.g. V2O5),
crystalline or not; and
(5) mixed metal oxide phases with the support (e.g.
ZrV2O7), or a combination of the above-mentioned
molecular structures.
Different vanadium oxide conﬁgurations are shown
in Fig. 4. Useful characterization techniques, which
can provide detailed information about the molec-
ular structure of supported vanadium oxides, must
be capable of discriminating between these different
vanadium oxide conﬁgurations and of quantifying the
individual oxidation states [61–64]. The spectroscopic
techniques used in the literature for studying sup-
ported vanadium oxides are summarized in Table 3,
together with the information about detectable oxida-
tion states, dispersion, coordination and quantitative
determination [65]. It is clear from Table 3 that no
characterization technique will be capable of pro-
viding all the information needed for a complete
characterization. Thus, successful characterization of
vanadium oxides in heterogeneous catalysts requires
a multi-technique approach. In what follows, a brief
overview of the capabilities and limitations of these
characterization techniques is given.
The infrared spectroscopy (IR) technique pro-
vides information on the molecular structure of the
supported vanadium oxide catalysts, although the
investigation of the surface vanadium oxide vibra-
tions is often complicated due to the overlapping
infrared bands of the support oxide [66–75]. IR can
also probe the interaction of vanadium oxide with
the surface hydroxyl groups of the oxide support
since hydroxyl groups give rise to intense infrared
30
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
Table 3
Spectroscopic techniques for studying supported vanadium oxides and the obtained information on coordination states, and dispersion [61–65]
Spectroscopic technique
Potentials
Limitations/comments
Oxidation state
Coordination
Dispersion
Quantitative
Infrared spectroscopy (IR)
+
+
−
+/−
Vanadium oxide vibrations are often
overshadowed by the support vibrations; small
molecules (e.g. CO) indirectly probe the
coordination environment of the metal ion
Raman spectroscopy (RS)
+
+
+/−
−
The Raman effect is not a sensitive process and as
a consequence low vanadium oxide loadings are
difﬁcult to study; ﬂuorescence may be a problem
especially with reduced samples
Electron spin resonance (ESR)
+
+
+/−
+
Only applicable to paramagnetic nuclei (e.g. V4+)
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS)
+
−
+
+
Only surface sensitive; need for UHV conditions
Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
−
+
−
+
Quenching problems may occur in the presence of
paramagnetic metal ions
Diffuse reﬂectance spectroscopy
(DRS) in the UV-Vis-NIR region
+
+
−
+
Broad and overlapping absorption bands complicate
spectrum interpretation; quantitative measurements
only possible at low vanadium oxide loadings
X-ray absorption ﬁne structure
spectroscopy (XAFS)
+
+
+/−
−
Average coordination numbers are obtained;
complicated data analysis
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
31
absorption bands. The technique is also frequently
used to study the interaction of the catalyst material
with reactant molecules during adsorption or sur-
face studies. Examples are the oxidation reactions
of methanol and toluene. The adsorption of basic
molecules, such as ammonia and pyridine, is a useful
method to determine the surface acidity of the cat-
alyst as it enables to distinguish between Brönsted
and Lewis acid sites. Oxidation states of supported
vanadium oxides, namely V3+ and V4+, can be deter-
mined by adsorption of NO at low temperature (e.g.
−180 ◦C).
The Raman spectroscopy (RS) technique can dis-
criminate between different vanadium oxide coor-
dination environments and bond lengths [76–86].
Vanadium–oxygen
vibrations
are
present
below
1100 cm−1 and RS has the advantage that the support
oxides only show weak absorption bands in the 700–
1100 cm−1 region. Indeed, silica and alumina supports
show any or only very weak Raman bands in the range
1100–100 cm−1, whereas titania and zirconia oxides
possess strong Raman absorption bands in the region
below 700 cm−1. Interaction of the vanadium oxides
with the support hydroxyls cannot be easily studied
with RS since the hydroxyl groups of the support
oxides are weak Raman scatterers. Only for titania
and silica sometimes weak hydroxyl groups can be
observed. Various studies have demonstrated that the
simultaneous use of reference vanadium oxide com-
pounds and the correlation between Raman frequency
and bond length makes RS very well suited to study
the molecular structures of supported vanadium ox-
ides. RS can also be applied to study structural changes
during in situ conditions, although it is not very sensi-
tive to reduced vanadium oxides (e.g. V4+ and V3+)
due to their low Raman cross-sections. The surface
vanadium oxide structure has been studied during the
adsorption and oxidation of methanol and methane,
and during the selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen
oxides. The inﬂuence of water vapor on the surface
vanadium oxide structure has also been investigated.
Electron spin resonance (ESR) is a powerful and
quantitative technique to study especially the presence
and coordination geometry of the paramagnetic V4+
(d1) species even under in situ conditions [87–96].
Vanadium has a nuclear spin of 7
2, resulting in a com-
plex spectrum with a high number of hyperﬁne lines.
This hyperﬁne splitting, arising from the interaction
of the unpaired electron with the vanadium nucleus is
sensitive to the chemical environment around the para-
magnetic V4+ ion. Therefore, ESR is very well suited
to characterize the molecular structure of surface V4+
species, whereas V3+ (d2) ions can only be studied at
very low temperatures since the energy difference be-
tween the ground and excited state is too small. The
fact that only V4+ species can be observed in an easy
way can be regarded both as an advantage and a disad-
vantage. Spin–spin coupling at high vanadium oxide
loading may lead to inaccurate quantitative determi-
nations of V4+ species.
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) provides
information about the oxidation state and the chemi-
cal environment of a given atom due to shifts in the
binding energies [97–105]. The structural information
is, however, limited since XPS cannot discriminate be-
tween different VOx structures possessing the same
oxidation state, i.e. between VO6, VO5 and VO4. Other
disadvantages are the use of ultrahigh vacuum con-
ditions, which may result in the reduction of surface
vanadium species in the measurement chamber and
the fact that the technique only provides information
about the catalyst surface. In contrast, the vanadium
oxide to support oxide ratio provides information on
the dispersion of the vanadium oxide phase and the
dimension of the vanadium oxide crystals at the cata-
lyst surface. In addition, the technique allows verify-
ing impurities (e.g. K, Na and Cl) potentially present
in the catalyst material.
Solid state 51V nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
is a suitable technique to investigate supported V5+
oxides since the nuclear spin of vanadium is 7
2, its nat-
ural abundance is almost 100% and its capability to
discriminate between different coordination environ-
ments of vanadium oxides [106–115]. The presence
of paramagnetic species, such as V4+, may prevent to
observe NMR signals since such species broadens the
NMR signal, and consequently, the signal due to V5+
can be lost. 51V NMR has been used to characterize
supported vanadium oxides on, e.g. silica, alumina, ti-
tania and zirconia. The limitation of the technique is
the somewhat lower sensitivity, especially when com-
pared with ESR techniques.
The diffuse reﬂectance spectroscopy (DRS) tech-
nique in the UV-Vis-NIR region provides insight on
the different oxidation states and coordination geome-
tries of supported vanadium oxides [116–120]. The
32
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
DRS technique probes the charge transfer transitions
as well as the d–d transitions of vanadium ions at the
catalyst surface. The technique is quantitative at least
for low vanadium oxide loadings and can be used un-
der in situ conditions. The disadvantage is that the
DRS signals are usually broad and overlap with each
other, leading to a biased spectral analysis. In addi-
tion, the origin of the speciﬁc electronic transition is
sometimes difﬁcult to isolate due to its dependence
on the local coordination environment, the polymer-
ization degree and the speciﬁc oxidation state.
The X-ray absorption ﬁne structure spectroscopy
(XAFS) technique, including EXAFS and XANES,
provides detailed information on the oxidation state
and the coordination environment of supported vana-
dium oxides [121–129]. Bond distances and coordina-
tion numbers can be determined with high precision
and no long range ordering is required as in the case
of X-ray diffraction. The XAFS technique can be
used under in situ conditions. Disadvantages are that
advanced data analysis is required to extract the in-
formation from the spectra and that only an average
structure can be inferred, which is often a problem
since supported vanadium oxides can co-exist in dif-
ferent coordination environments and oxidation states.
4. Preparation methods of supported vanadium
oxide catalysts
Supported vanadium oxide catalysts can be pre-
pared via several methods [6]. In the following para-
graphs, the most important preparation techniques will
be brieﬂy described, and their advantages and disad-
vantages will be discussed.
Impregnation is the most simple and widely used
preparation technique for making supported vana-
dium oxide catalysts. The term impregnation denotes
a procedure whereby a certain volume of an aqueous
or non-aqueous solution containing a vanadium com-
pound is adsorbed into the pores of an inorganic oxide.
Two impregnation procedures can be distinguished.
If the support is dipped into an excess amount of so-
lution, the process is called wet impregnation. More
precise control over the vanadium oxide loading is
achieved with a technique called dry impregnation,
pore volume impregnation or incipient wetness im-
pregnation. The support is then contacted with a
solution of appropriate concentration, corresponding
in quantity to the total known pore volume of the
support, or slightly less. This allows precise control
of the concentration of the active vanadium oxide
component on the support. However, the maximum
loading obtainable in a single impregnation is limited
by the solubility of the reagent and if necessary multi-
ple impregnation steps should be applied. V2O5 has a
low solubility in aqueous and non-aqueous solutions
and therefore, many authors prepare their supported
vanadium oxide catalysts by impregnating the sup-
port with either an aqueous solution of, e.g. NH4VO3
[130–137] or NH4VO3 dissolved in aqueous oxalic
acid [138–141]. The impregnation process is followed
by a drying and heating step in which the vanadium
oxide compound is chemically anchored onto the
support oxide. This is illustrated in Fig. 5a. In the lat-
ter case, the resulting deep blue solution contains the
compound (NH4)2[VO(C2O4)2], the vanadium being
in the +4 oxidation state [142]. The advantage of this
method is that much higher amounts of NH4VO3 can
be dissolved since this compound is poorly soluble in
water. The oxalic acid acts as a reducing agent, which
results in the formation of V4+. The interaction of
this ionic oxalate complex with the support (denoted
as S) can proceed via an ion exchange reaction [143]:
2S–OH + (NH4+)2[VO(C2O4)2]2−
→(S–cation+)2[VO(C2O4)2]2−+ 2NH4OH (1)
As the sorption of these complexes is carried out
from acid solutions with a pH <2, the surface hy-
droxyl groups are protonated and the support surface
possesses a positive charge:
S–OH + H+ →(S–OH2)+
(2)
A ligand substitution reaction can now take place to-
gether with the ion exchange mechanism. Ligand sub-
stitution implies the exchange of ligands of the metal
complex for functional groups of the support oxide:
(S–OH2)+ + [VO(C2O4)2]2−
→(S–O)2−x[VO(C2O4)2−x] + xH2C2O4
(3)
Non-aqueous impregnation methods use, e.g. vanadyl
acetylacetonate (VO(acac)2) as vanadium compound
or VO(OC2H5)3 or VO(OC3H7)3 in methanol or an-
other organic solvent [144–148]. The latter method is
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
33
Fig. 5. Synthesis methods for the preparation of supported vanadium oxide catalysts: (a) impregnation with an aqueous solution of NH4VO3,
followed by calcination in oxygen and (b) impregnation with VO(OC3H7)3 in methanol, followed by calcination in oxygen or air and
release of propanol.
illustrated in Fig. 5b. After the impregnation step the
material is calcined in air at high temperatures (e.g.
500 ◦C) and surface anchored vanadium oxides are
formed.
Grafting is deﬁned as the removal from solution of
a compound containing vanadium through interaction
with hydroxyl groups on the surface of an inorganic
support. Many authors have used a solution of VOCl3
in CCl4 or in benzene to obtain a dispersed VOx phase
on various inorganic oxides [149]. Non-aqueous solu-
tions of VO(OiBu)3 have also been successfully used
[150–153]. Multiple grafting followed by calcination
will result in a monolayer of vanadium oxides on
the surface of a support oxide. A related technique is
chemical vapor deposition (CVD), which makes use
of a volatile inorganic or organo-metallic compound
that is deposited at the surface of a support oxide by
reaction with the support hydroxyl groups. Interest-
ing vanadium precursor compounds for this prepara-
tion method are VCl4 and VOCl3, and their interaction
with SiO2, TiO2 and Al2O3 has been studied in detail
[154–157]. A similar synthesis method is atomic layer
deposition (ALD) and series of V/SiO2 and V/Al2O3
catalysts were prepared according to this gas phase
preparation technique [158].
Vanadium oxides and support oxides—or their
precursors—may be co-precipitated from a solution
containing compounds of each element. This usually
produces an intimate mixing of the catalytic active
phase and the support, but the active component is
dispersed through the bulk as well as being on the
surface. An example of such procedure is the prepa-
ration of V/TiO2 catalyst materials starting from a
mixed V4+ and Ti4+ solution and by adding NH4OH.
A ﬁnal preparation technique is the method of thermal
spreading [159,160]. This technique makes use of the
high mobility of V2O5 with a Tamman temperature of
370 ◦C. Heating of, e.g. a physical mixture of V2O5
and Al2O3, will lead to the spreading of vanadium
oxides over the alumina support and the formation
34
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
of different surface vanadium oxide conﬁgurations.
The driving force for this spreading phenomenon is
the lowering of the surface free energy by forming a
monolayer of surface vanadium oxide species on the
high surface free energy oxide support. Formation of
such monolayer is also observed during hydrocarbon
oxidation reactions over physical mixtures of V2O5
and TiO2 [161,162].
Although many different synthesis methods have
been used in preparing supported vanadium oxide
Table 4
Inﬂuence of the synthesis method on the maximum vanadium oxide loading, which can be dispersed on a particular support oxide without
formation of V2O5 crystals
Support
oxide
Preparation method
Surface area of
support (m2/g)
Maximum loading of vanadium
(V atoms per nm2 of support)
Detection
method
Reference
SiO2
Impregnation with NH4VO3
150
0.7
NMR
[164]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
200
1.0
RS
[165]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
200
1.0
NMR
[166]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
300
0.6
RS
[167]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
530
0.2
RS
[168]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
350
0.4
XRD
[169]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
530
0.4
RS
[77]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
90
1.0
RS
[170]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
203
1.0
XRD
[156]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
90
1.0
RS
[171]
Grafting with VCl3
160
0.5
EXAFS
[172]
Chemical vapor deposition with VO(OC2H5)3
203
3.9
XRD
[156]
Al2O3
Impregnation with NH4VO3
205
8.0
NMR
[164]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
262
2.2
XRD
[173]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
78
5.6
RS
[167]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
187
5.0
XRD
[174]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
145
6.5
NMR
[175]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
101
3.1
XRD
[176]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
100
4.4
RS
[170]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
188
2.3
XRD
[177]
Grafting with VCl3
80
9.4
EXAFS
[172]
Chemical vapor deposition with VO(OC2H5)3
93
18.0
XRD
[156]
Grafting with VO(OC2H5)3
180
1.8
NMR
[106]
TiO2
Impregnation with NH4VO3
45
8.3
RS
[167]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
35
7.1
XRD
[174]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
50
13.0
XRD
[169]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
50
7.8
RS
[178]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
52
1.7
RS
[77]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
50
5.6
RS
[170]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
59
7.2
XRD
[177]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
98
6.6
RS
[179]
Grafting with VCl3
120
8.0
EXAFS
[172]
ZrO2
Impregnation with NH4VO3
71
3.5
XRD
[174]
Impregnation with NH4VO3
49
3.5
XRD
[100]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
63
0.8
RS
[180]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
330
7.5
RS
[181]
Impregnation with ammonium vanadyl oxalate
140
7.0
RS
[182]
catalysts, all supported vanadium oxide catalysts were
found to contain essentially the same vanadium oxide
conﬁgurations after prolonged calcination treatments
[163]. This means that the preparation method does
not inﬂuence the local coordination environment of
supported vanadium oxides. However, it inﬂuences
the amount of supported vanadium oxides, which can
be deposited on a particular support oxide without the
formation of crystalline V2O5. Thus, the preparation
method may affect the vanadium oxide dispersion.
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
35
Table 4 illustrates this observation by comparing the
maximum amount of vanadium (V per nm2), which
can be deposited on SiO2, Al2O3, TiO2 and ZrO2 with-
out V2O5 crystal formation [6]. The results were ob-
tained from publications of different research groups
active in supported vanadium oxide catalyst chemistry
[164–182]. It is clear that different characterization
techniques can be used to detect V2O5 crystal forma-
tion, namely XRD, NMR, RS and XAFS, but each
of these techniques has its own sensitivity towards
V2O5 crystals. RS and NMR are much more sensi-
tive in this respect than XRD and XAFS. The max-
imum amount of vanadium without V2O5 formation
is also a function of the support type, the prepara-
tion method and the research group who was prepar-
ing the catalyst material (Table 4). The maximum
amount of deposited surface vanadium oxides with-
out V2O5 crystal formation is around 0.5–1 V per nm2
for V/SiO2 catalysts and around 5–10 V per nm2 for
V/ZrO2, V/TiO2 and V/Al2O3 catalysts. These values
should be compared with the monolayer surface cov-
erage value of 4.98 molecules of V2O5 per nm2 based
on the crystal structure of V2O5. From the V–O bond
length of crystalline V2O5 one can then estimate that
a two-dimensional polyvanadate oxide layer and iso-
lated monomeric vanadium oxide layer corresponds to
a surface density of 10 and 2.5 V per nm2, respectively.
5. Chemistry of surface vanadium oxides
during the different stages of the life-span of a
heterogeneous catalyst
The goal of this section is to illustrate that spec-
troscopic techniques are very powerful to elucidate
the surface chemistry of supported vanadium oxides
during each stage of the life-span of a heterogeneous
Table 5
Surface vanadium oxide species, as detected by Raman spectroscopy, on different hydrated amorphous inorganic oxides [183]
Support oxide
IEP
Surface area (m2/g)
V oxide at low V loading
V oxide at high V loading
MgO
11.0
80
VO4a, V2O7, (VO3)n
VO4a, V2O7a, (VO3)n
Al2O3
8.9
180
(VO3)na
(VO3)n, V10O28a
TiO2
6.2
55
(VO3)na, V10O28a
V10O28a
ZrO2
5.9
39
V2O7, (VO3)na, V10O28a
V10O28a
SiO2
3.9
300
Ohb
V2O5
a Major species.
b Decavanadate-like environment, from solid-state 51V NMR spectroscopy.
catalyst starting from its genesis up to the deactivation
of the catalyst material [65,183]. This will be done
by presenting several examples on catalyst synthesis,
calcination, activation, operation and deactivation,
mainly from our own or collaborative work.
5.1. Catalyst synthesis
The molecular structures of vanadium oxide species
on amorphous support oxides after impregnation have
been studied in detail with Raman spectroscopy by
Deo and Wachs [184]. These authors have shown
that the surface vanadium oxide molecular structures
were found to depend on the net pH at which the
oxide surface possesses no surface charge (point of
zero charge, pzc). The net surface pH at pzc or the
isoelectric point (IEP) of a speciﬁc support is mainly
determined by its composition (SiO2, Al2O3, ZrO2,
TiO2 and MgO). Under hydrated conditions, the sur-
face of an amorphous oxide is covered by a thin
water ﬁlm and its hydroxyl population is subject to
pH-dependent equilibria reactions:
X–OH2+ ↔X–OH + Hs+
(4)
X–OH ↔X–O−+ Hs+
(5)
Hs+ ↔H+
(6)
where X = Si, Al, Zr, Ti or Mg; Hs+ and H+ repre-
sent the surface and solution proton, respectively. The
IEP of different amorphous support oxides are sum-
marized in Table 5. The lower the IEP of the amor-
phous oxide, the more the equilibria of the reactions
(4)–(6) are driven to the right. The higher the H+
concentration near the surface, the more the equilib-
rium reactions in aqueous solutions are driven towards
the formation of more polymerized vanadium oxide
species. Hence, the structure of the vanadium oxide
36
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
species follows the vanadium(V) oxide aqueous chem-
istry as a function of the pH (i.e. the Pourbaix dia-
gram as shown in Fig. 2), and the main spectroscopic
results for low-loaded supported vanadium oxide cat-
alysts are summarized in Table 5, which conﬁrm the
above-mentioned reasoning.
When the vanadium oxide loading increases two
effects come into play: (1) the pH near the surface is
lowered due to the presence of acidic vanadium oxides,
and decreases with increasing vanadium oxide load-
ing; and (2) the dispersion depends on the available
surface area as well as the availability of surface hy-
droxyl groups. Both factors inﬂuence the chemistry of
vanadium in the same direction, i.e. toward the forma-
tion of surface polyvanadates. In other words, the fol-
lowing sequence is observed for increasing vanadium
oxide loading: orthovanadate (VO4) →pyrovanadate
(V2O7) →metavanadate (VO3)n →decavanadate
(V10O28) →vanadium pentoxide (V2O5). Effect
(2) also implicates that high surface area supports,
such as alumina, will give rise to relatively less poly-
merized vanadium oxide species (V10O28) at high
vanadium oxide loadings because more surface area
is available to accommodate monovanadate species.
The effect of the presence of additives, such as P2O5
and K2O, can alter the IEP of the supports or form
vanadium phosphate or potassium vanadate com-
pounds, and consequently, change the vanadium oxide
speciation [185].
Recent EXAFS studies have revealed that the
above-described surface chemistry is more complex
than stated and that vanadium oxides are present in a
kind of supported liquid phase covering the surface of
the amorphous oxides [186]. More speciﬁcally, there
is direct spectroscopic evidence for the interaction of
vanadium oxides in the supported liquid phase and
the support oxygen atoms. EXAFS indicates that the
vanadium oxide–support oxygen distance is a func-
tion of the support oxide, i.e. 2.60 Å for Nb2O5 and
3.01–3.05 Å for Al2O3 supports. More efforts should
be directed towards the development of a more de-
tailed model describing such supported liquid phase
of hydrated vanadium oxides.
5.2. Catalyst calcination
Upon heating in air, the water molecules adsorbed
on the support and around the supported vanadium
Fig. 6. Anchoring of hydrated vanadium oxides onto a support
oxide via an esteriﬁcation reaction with the hydroxyl groups.
oxides are removed and the supported vanadium ox-
ides are oxidized mainly to the +5 oxidation state.
The formed dehydrated vanadium oxides directly an-
chor onto the surface via an esteriﬁcation reaction
with the hydroxyl groups of the amorphous oxide, re-
sulting in the formation of surface vanadium oxides.
This is schematically drawn in Fig. 6. Direct evidence
for this reaction comes from IR spectroscopy indi-
cating the consumption of hydroxyl groups, which is
proportional with the quantity of deposited vanadium
oxides. Turek et al. [187] have shown that on alumina
this reaction starts from the more basic OH groups to
the more acidic groups.
As already mentioned above, the supported vana-
dium oxide species formed on various supports all
essentially possess the same molecular structures
[9,183,188]. At low surface vanadium oxide loading
the supported vanadium oxides are isolated VO4 units,
containing one terminal mono-oxo V=O bond and
three bridging vanadium–oxygen–support bond with
symmetry C3v. The mono-oxo nature of this species
has been concluded from O-18 isotopic labeling ex-
periments in conjunction with Raman spectroscopy
[189]. In addition, the frequency of the V=O bond has
the same value in IR and Raman spectroscopy. XAFS
spectroscopy has shown that the V=O bond is around
1.62 Å, whereas the three V–O–support bonds have
each a length of about 1.81 Å [186]. The V=O bond
distance can also be deduced from the corresponding
Raman stretching frequencies by applying empirical
correlations based on the diatomic approximations as
developed by Hardcastle and Wachs [86]. The sup-
port oxide has some effect on the mono-oxo V=O
bond length, which varies in the range 1.60–1.79 Å
depending on the support oxide material.
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
37
Fig. 7. Raman spectra of calcined V/Al2O3 catalysts as a function
of vanadium oxide loading.
With increasing surface vanadium oxide loading,
the amount of dimeric and polymeric chains of VO4
units will gradually increase. The polymeric vanadium
oxide species consist of a terminal V=O bond with
one V–O–support and two bridging V–O–V bonds
(Fig. 4c). Fig. 7 illustrates this trend by showing the
Raman spectra of dehydrated V/Al2O3 catalysts with
an increasing amount of vanadium oxide. It can be
seen that the Raman band at 930 cm−1, due to the
presence of polymeric vanadium oxides, gradually in-
creases with increasing vanadium oxide loading. At
very high vanadium oxide loadings, a fraction of the
supported vanadium oxide species are present in an
octahedral coordination (VO6 units), which can aggre-
gate to form amorphous and crystalline V2O5 clusters.
A ﬁnal remark should be made about the formation of
mixed metal oxides upon heating of supported vana-
dium oxide catalysts. It has been shown that MgV2O7
and ZrV2O7 can be formed when V/MgO and V/ZrO2
catalysts, respectively are calcined in air [190–193].
5.3. Catalyst activation
The reduction of supported vanadium oxide cata-
lysts at high temperatures in the presence of, e.g. CO
and H2 may lead to the formation of a variety of oxida-
tion states (i.e. V5+, V4+ and V3+) and coordination
Fig. 8. XPS spectra showing the V 2p3/2 region for a 5 wt.%
V/Al2O3 catalyst reduced at 580 ◦C for 30 min in CO, including
the peak deconvolution for supported V5+, V4+ and V3+ species.
environments (i.e. VO4, VO5 and VO6) [193]. Many
authors have determined the average oxidation state
of supported vanadium oxides after reduction with
temperature programmed reduction (TPR) techniques,
mainly H2-TPR techniques [194,195]. However, not
much is already known about the quantitative distribu-
tion of the different vanadium oxide oxidation states
(%V5+, %V4+ and %V3+) and their exact coordina-
tion environment at the catalyst surface after reduc-
tion and the parameters inﬂuencing the reduction de-
gree of supported vanadium oxides. Thus, much more
research efforts should be directed towards the eluci-
dation of supported vanadium oxides under reduced
conditions.
A possible spectroscopic technique for estimating
the amount of V5+, V4+ and V3+ is XPS. Fig. 8 shows
a typical XPS spectrum of a reduced 5 wt.% V/Al2O3
catalyst treated at 580 ◦C for 30 min in CO, together
with the proposed peak deconvolutions for the three
oxidation states as measured by Harlin et al. [196].
Table 6 summarizes the fractions of V5+, V4+ and
V3+ present in such catalyst after reduction with CO,
H2 and CH4. It can be seen that the fractions of V5+,
V4+ and V3+ were slightly different after reduction
with the different reducing gases and the lowest aver-
age oxidation state (3.8) is observed with H2. Although
Eberhardt et al. [97] observed only the presence of
V5+ and V3+ on the surface after reduction with H2 or
CO, it has often been concluded that the alumina sup-
port also stabilizes reduced V4+ species. The presence
of V4+ species have indeed been measured by many
authors for supported vanadium oxides on alumina by
38
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
Table 6
Results of peak deconvolution of the vanadium photoelectron signal
after calcination of a 5 wt.% V/Al2O3 catalyst in air and after
reduction with H2, CO and CH4 at 580 ◦C for 30 min, together with
average oxidation states calculated from these fractions [193,196]
Treatment
%V5+
%V4+
%V3+
Average
oxidation
state of V
Calcination
100
0
0
5
Reduction with H2
21
37
42
3.8
Reduction with CO
34
28
38
4.0
Reduction with CH4
32
41
27
4.1
ESR [87–96]. As an example, the ESR spectra of the
same 5 wt.% V/Al2O3 catalyst after calcination and re-
duction with CO and H2 is shown in Fig. 9 [197]. The
ESR spectra are typical for an isolated vanadyl species
in a pseudo-octahedral coordination. The amount of
V4+ increases in the order: calcined catalyst (8%) <
reduced catalyst with CO (13%) < reduced catalyst
with H2 (35%) and this trend is in line with the XPS
results presented in Table 6. The exact numbers are
not identical most probably due to the introduction of
errors in data treatment (e.g. baseline correction).
Detailed analysis of the ESR spectra, in combina-
tion with spectrum simulation, also revealed that two
distinct magnetically isolated V4+ species can be de-
tected, labeled as species A and B. Both species have
similar g- and A-values indicating two V4+ species in a
slightly different octahedral coordination environment
at the catalyst surface. Species A, which is the domi-
Fig. 9. ESR spectra of a 5 wt.% V/Al2O3 catalyst calcined at 580 ◦C (a), reduced at 580 ◦C for 30 min in CO (b) and reduced at 580 ◦C
for 30 min in H2 (c).
nant species after calcination, was almost absent after
reduction with H2 at 580 ◦C, but a signiﬁcant amount
of species A was always present with CO as the re-
ducing agent, even after reduction at 580 ◦C. Further
characterization studies should now be directed in the
elucidation of the coordination environment of species
A and B.
5.4. Catalytic operation
Although many reactions can be catalyzed by
supported vanadium oxide catalysts, the selective ox-
idation of methanol to formaldehyde is a particularly
useful example because this catalytic reaction can be
considered as a simple probe reaction for a number of
other selective oxidation reactions [198]. Examples of
such oxidation reactions are the selective oxidation of
butane to maleic anhydride and o-xylene to phthalic
anhydride and the oxidative dehydrogenation of alka-
nes to the corresponding alkenes. As a consequence,
the concepts developed for the selective oxidation of
methanol over supported vanadium oxide catalysts
can be easily transferred to these catalytic reactions
as well.
The selective oxidation of methanol can be written
as
CH3OH + O2 →CH2O + H2O
(7)
This reaction is usually conducted at 230 ◦C in a
ﬁxed-bed reactor. During the oxidation of methanol
to formaldehyde, the supported vanadium oxides
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
39
become partially reduced by the reaction environment
[183,188]. The extent of reduction during methanol
oxidation is rather limited and almost independent
of the surface vanadium oxide loading, the speciﬁc
support and the reaction temperature. This suggests
that the fraction of supported vanadium(V) oxides is
almost constant. In addition, IR spectroscopy reveals
the presence of surface methoxy intermediates.
Catalytic measurements show that the selectivities
to formaldehyde are 90–99% for V/TiO2, V/ZrO2,
V/Nb2O5 and V/CeO2, whereas only a selectivity
of 50% to formaldehyde was observed for V/Al2O3
catalysts [199]. The major unselective product was
dimethylether, which is associated with the presence
of some surface acid sites at the catalyst surface.
The relative independence of the turnover frequency
(TOF), which is deﬁned as the number of methanol
molecules converted per surface vanadium oxide site
per second, with the vanadium oxide loading at each
of the amorphous supports, indicates that the reac-
tion rate is ﬁrst order with respect to the surface
vanadium oxide sites. This suggests that the selective
oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde over sup-
ported vanadium oxide catalysts is a uni-molecular
reaction requiring only one surface vanadium oxide
species, which can be referred to as the catalyti-
cally active site. A possible reaction mechanism is
given in Fig. 10, showing the presence of a spec-
troscopically observed reaction intermediate, namely
V–O–CH3 species [183]. It shows a four-step pro-
cess, in which ﬁrst the methanol is chemisorbed onto
Fig. 10. Reaction mechanism for the selective oxidation of
methanol
to
formaldehyde
over
supported
vanadium
oxide
catalysts.
the surface vanadium oxide species with the forma-
tion of a methoxy group. In the second step, the C–H
bond in the adsorbed methoxy group is broken and
formaldehyde is released. The breaking of the C–H
in the V–O–CH3 unit is the rate-determining step in
the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde. The third
reaction step is the re-oxidation of the reduced vana-
dium site to V5+ followed by the release of water.
Such scheme is a typical example of the Mars–Van
Krevelen redox mechanism, in which the oxidation of
hydrocarbons proceeds by a reduction of an oxidized
surface site, which is subsequently re-oxidized with
gas-phase molecular oxygen.
One of the intriguing questions for years is which
molecular bond in the supported vanadium oxides
is responsible for the oxidation activity in various
catalytic oxidation reactions [200–202]. Three types
of bonds can be distinguished: terminal V=O bonds,
bridging V–O–V bonds, and V–O–support bonds
(Fig. 11). In what follows, we discuss the experi-
mental evidence currently available to evaluate the
possible role of each of these bonds in the selective
oxidation of methanol.
5.4.1. Role of terminal V=O bonds
Many investigators have been convinced that this
bond contains the oxygen critical for methanol oxi-
dation. However, in situ Raman spectroscopy in com-
bination with catalytic measurements has shown that
there is no relation between the terminal V=O bonds
and the catalytic performances of supported vanadium
oxide catalysts. Indeed, the TOF was found to vary
drastically, although almost identical V=O Raman fea-
tures were observed for these catalysts. This is shown
in Table 7 and similar results are obtained for the
Fig. 11. Three possible V–O bonds involved in the selective oxi-
dation of methanol to formaldehyde: (a) monomeric VO4 species
and (b) polymeric VO4 species characterized by V=O, V–O–V
and V–O–support bonds.
40
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
Table 7
Catalytic performances in the selective oxidation of methanol to
formaldehyde at 230 ◦C and Raman frequency of the V=O bond
for a series of supported vanadium oxide catalysts [183,188,199]
Supported vanadium
oxide catalyst
TOF at 230 ◦C
V=O bond (cm−1)
V/SiO2
3 × 10−3
1039
V/Al2O3
7 × 10−2
1026
V/Nb2O5
4.5 × 10−1
1033
V/TiO2
1.1 × 100
1030
V/ZrO2
1.8 × 100
1030
oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride and the
oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes. Fur-
thermore, oxygen-18 labeling of the terminal V=O
bond during methanol oxidation revealed that this
bond is very stable and has an exchange time that is
approximately 20 times longer than the characteristic
reaction time. A series of in situ Raman spectra at
different degrees of oxygen-18 labeling is given in
Fig. 12. It is shown that the V=18O bond is gradu-
ally transformed into a V=16O bond during methanol
Fig. 12. In situ Raman spectra obtained during the selective oxi-
dation of methanol to formaldehyde over a V/ZrO2 catalyst. The
supported metal oxide catalyst was ﬁrst partially transformed with
18O2 in its 18O form by a reduction–re-oxidation treatment with
n-butane and oxygen-18. Repeating this reduction–re-oxidation cy-
cle for several times results in a shift of the 1030 cm−1 Raman
band to approximately 1000 cm−1. The 1030 cm−1 is a typical
Raman frequency for the V=16O bond.
oxidation, but with an exchange rate much slower
than the effective reaction rate. All these experimental
observations strongly indicate that the terminal V=O
bonds do not contain the critical oxygen that is in-
volved in the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde.
5.4.2. Role of bridging V–O–V bonds
It is already discussed that the ratio of polymer-
ized to isolated supported vanadium oxide species
increases with increasing vanadium oxide loading
(Fig. 7). As a consequence, the surface concentration
of bridging V–O–V bonds increases with increasing
vanadium oxide loading. The TOF of these catalysts,
however, is independent of the vanadium oxide load-
ing, as is illustrated in Fig. 13. This suggests that the
oxygen associated with the V–O–V bond does not
critically participate in the oxidation of methanol to
formaldehyde.
5.4.3. Role of V–O–support bonds
Indirect evidence for the role of this bond can
be found by changing the speciﬁc support compo-
sition. Since changing the speciﬁc support oxide
composition dramatically inﬂuences the TOF of the
corresponding supported vanadium oxide catalysts
for the selective oxidation of methanol to formalde-
hyde (Table 7), it strongly suggests that the oxygen
in the V–O–support bond is critical for this catalytic
oxidation reaction. This observed trend in TOF is a
nice example of the metal oxide–support effect in
heterogeneous catalysis and by a careful choice of
the support oxide one can tune the catalyst perfor-
mances. More experimental evidence for the role of
Fig. 13. TOF values of a V/ZrO2 catalyst as a function of the
supported vanadium oxide loading in the selective oxidation of
methanol to formaldehyde at 230 ◦C.
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
41
the V–O–support bond in methanol oxidation is dif-
ﬁcult since this bond cannot be directly assessed by,
e.g. vibrational spectroscopies. However, XAFS spec-
troscopy, more speciﬁcally the XANES technique,
allows probing the electronic density on the vanadium
in supported vanadium oxide catalysts as a function
of the support oxide [203]. It was found that the
electron density on vanadium increases in the order:
V/SiO2 ≪V/Al2O3 ≪V/ZrO2 < V/Nb2O5. This
trend was also in line with quantitative measurements
of V4+ by using the ESR technique. Thus, an increase
in electron density as measured with XANES resulted
in a decrease in the amount of ESR-visible V4+ and
an increase in the TOF for methanol in the oxidation
to formaldehyde (Table 7). The high electron density
of the vanadium facilitates the rate-determining bond
breaking step in the V–O–CH3 reaction intermediate
during methanol oxidation.
5.5. Catalyst deactivation
An example in which vanadium oxides play a cru-
cial role in catalyst deactivation is the ﬂuid catalytic
cracking (FCC) of crude oil over ultrastable Y (USY)
zeolites. A large amount of research has focused on
understanding the destructive role of vanadium since
it is major issue for catalyst performance during the
cracking of residuum-containing feeds [204–209]. It
has been shown that the destruction of zeolite Y in
the presence of steam occurs via two pathways [209].
The ﬁrst route is the steam hydrolysis of framework
aluminum, while the second route is a direct attack of
the Si–O–Si framework by sodium species. Sodium
reacts with steam to form an active center, a surface
NaOH, which is able to destroy the zeolite structure.
The detrimental role of vanadium is now to enhance
this second route by acting as a catalyst for the re-
moval of sodium ions from zeolite Y. This could occur
according to the following reaction steps:
V2O5 + 3H2O →2H3VO4
(8)
V2O5 + H2O →2HVO3
(9)
VO2+ + H2O →HVO3 + H+
(10)
VO2+ + 2H2O →H3VO4 + H+
(11)
H3VO4 →HVO3 + H2O
(12)
HVO3 + Na-Y →NaVO3 + H-Y
(13)
NaVO3 + H2O →HVO3 + NaOH
(14)
V–porphyrin or other organic vanadium compounds
present in crude oil are oxidized and broken down
in the catalyst regenerator, and the released vanadium
will migrate at the outer surface of the zeolite since
V2O5 is a liquid at the reaction conditions. It will re-
act with steam to give acidic compounds (reactions (8)
and (9)). Similarly, vanadium can be present as an ad-
sorbed surface species of the form VO2+ and can react
with steam to form acids (reactions (10) and (11)). The
metavanadic acid reacts with the sodium cation of ze-
olite Y (Na-Y) to form sodium metavanadate (reaction
(13)). This sodium metavanadate hydrolyses further
to give NaOH and metavanadic acid (reaction (14)).
Metavanadic acid can then react again with the zeo-
lite to form sodium metavanadate (reaction (13)). It is
clear that metavanadic acid can be considered as a cat-
alyst that facilitates the removal of sodium ions from
zeolite Y and this results in the formation of NaOH,
which is quite potent for zeolite Y destruction.
A way to prevent this destruction process by sup-
ported vanadium oxides is to trap the vanadium com-
pounds, in particular metavanadic acid, onto an ox-
ide coating, which surrounds the zeolite material. This
implies insight in the adsorption properties of sup-
ported vanadium oxides. In a recent study, the pref-
erential adsorption of V4+/5+ ions on SiO2, Al2O3
and USY has been studied with combined DRS–ESR
spectroscopies in quite detail [210]. By taking the
spectroscopic ﬁngerprints of V4+/5+ on these sup-
ports as reference spectra it was possible to monitor
the preferential adsorption of V4+/5+ onto physical
mixtures of these oxides. It was shown that both V4+
and V5+ ions were preferentially adsorbed on Al2O3
and showed a much smaller preference for USY and
SiO2. Based on this observation, a novel method was
developed to coat the external surface of USY with a
thin ﬁlm of Al2O3 [210,211]. This method is based on
the deposition of USY with the so-called Keggin ion,
[Al13O4(OH)24(H2O)12]7+, which is too big to enter
the USY channels or pores. The obtained Al2O3/USY
material showed a preferential adsorption of V4+ onto
the Al2O3 ﬁlm. XPS revealed that all the coated USY
materials have a substantial enrichment in the alu-
minum oxide content in the near-surface region of the
zeolite material, while IR spectroscopy proved that the
42
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
acidic hydroxyl groups of the zeolite remained intact
for cracking reactions. Thus, this coating method could
be useful for vanadium passivation in FCC catalysis.
6. Concluding remarks and look into the future
Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are very com-
plex inorganic materials that play an important role in
heterogeneous catalysis in both the gas and the liquid
phase. Their synthesis and molecular design require a
profound knowledge of solution chemistry, solid-state
chemistry and inorganic chemistry, and their applica-
tion as catalysts results from the speciﬁc interaction
between the support oxide and the vanadium oxide.
Insight into the preparation of supported vanadium ox-
ide catalysts at a molecular level would be very ben-
eﬁcial. It is hoped that this goal can be achieved in
the future by applying in situ spectroscopic techniques
and appropriate spectroscopic reaction cells.
It is also evident that the support characteristics
(e.g. chemical composition) have a tremendous im-
pact on the properties of the supported vanadium ox-
ide species. This metal oxide–support effect—in the
hydrated state, dehydrated state as well under reaction
conditions—is not well studied and therefore not well
understood both at a molecular and electronic level. Up
to now, no consistent model can describe—in a quan-
titative manner—the role of the structure/composition
of support oxides and the presence of speciﬁc pro-
moter elements on the electronic structure of the
supported vanadium oxides. This lack of knowledge
prevents a rational design of supported vanadium ox-
ide catalysts. Therefore, further research has to be di-
rected towards the use of an intelligent combination of
preferably in situ spectroscopic techniques delivering
both molecular and electronic information about the
supported vanadium oxides. Theoretical calculations
of relevant cluster models of supported vanadium
oxide catalysts can be in this respect very helpful.
Acknowledgements
BMW acknowledges Prof. Robert A. Schoonheydt,
Prof. Jack H. Lunsford and Prof. Israel E. Wachs for
their continuous interest in his research work.
References
[1] R.J.H. Clark, The chemistry of titanium and vanadium,
Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1968.
[2] F.A. Cotton, G. Wilkinson, Advanced Inorganic Chemistry,
A Comprehensive Text, 4th ed., Wiley, New York, 1980.
[3] N.N. Greenwood, A. Earnshaw, Chemistry of the Elements,
Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1984.
[4] J.S. Magee, M.M. Mitchel, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 76 (1993)
105.
[5] R.G.
Burns,
in:
A.
Putris,
R.C.
Liebermann
(Eds.),
Mineralogical Applications of Crystal Field Theory, 2nd ed.,
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1993.
[6] M. Baltes, Synthesis and characterization of vanadium oxide
catalysts, Ph.D. Thesis, University of Antwerp, Belgium,
2001.
[7] F. Triﬁro, B. Grzybowska, Appl. Catal. A Gen. 157 (1997).
[8] G.C. Bond, S.F. Tahir, Appl. Catal. 71 (1991) 1.
[9] G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Haber, Crit. Rev. Surf. Chem. 4
(1994) 141.
[10] G. Ertl, H. Knozinger, J. Weitkamp (Eds.), Handbook of
Heterogeneous Catalysis, Wiley–VCH, Weinheim, 1997.
[11] J.M. Thomas, W.J. Thomas, Principles and Practice of
Heterogeneous Catalysis, VCH, Weinheim, 1997.
[12] J. Hagen, Industrial Catalysis, A Practical Approach,
Wiley–VCH, Weinheim, 1999.
[13] H.F. Rase, Handbook of Commercial Catalysts, CRC Press,
New York, 2000.
[14] B.M. Weckhuysen, P. Van Der Voort, G. Catana (Eds.),
Spectroscopy of Transition Metal Ions on Surfaces, Leuven
University Press, 2000 (The literature search is based on a
Chemical Abstract search in the period 1967–2000).
[15] C.N.
Satterﬁeld,
Heterogeneous
Catalysis
in
Practice,
McGraw-Hill, New York, 1980.
[16] J.M. Lopez Nieto, P. Concepcion, A. Dejoz, H. Knozinger,
F. Melo, M.I. Vazquez, J. Catal. 189 (2000) 147.
[17] K. Wada, H. Yamada, E. Watanabe, T. Mitsudo, J. Chem.
Soc., Faraday Trans. 94 (1998) 1771.
[18] Z.P. Zhu, Z.Y. Liu, S.J. Liu, H.X. Niu, Appl. Catal. B:
Environ. 23 (1999) 229.
[19] H. Bosch, F.J.J.G. Janssen, F.M.G. Van den Kerkhof, J.
Oldenziel, J.G. Van Ommen, J.R.H. Ross, Appl. Catal. 25
(1986) 239.
[20] M.D. Amiridis, I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, J.M. Jehng, D.S. Kim,
J. Catal. 161 (1996) 247.
[21] C.R. Dias, M.F. Portgela, M. Galan-Fereres, M.A. Banares,
M.L. Granados, M.A. Pena, J.L.G. Fierro, Catal. Lett. 43
(1997) 117.
[22] M.G. Nobbenhuis, A. Baiker, P. Barnickel, A. Wokaun,
Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 85 (1992) 157.
[23] M. Sanati, A. Andersson, L.R. Wallenberg, B. Rebenstorf,
Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 106 (1993) 51.
[24] K.V. Narayana, A. Venugopal, K.S. Rama Rao, S. Khaja
Masthan, V.V. Rao, P. Kanta Rao, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 167
(1998) 11.
[25] F. Cavani, F. Triﬁro, P. Jiru, K. Habersberger, W. Tvaruzkova,
Zeolites 8 (1988) 12.
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
43
[26] L.J. Burcham, G.T. Gao, X.T. Gao, I.E. Wachs, Top. Catal.
11 (2000) 85.
[27] J.P. Dunn, P.R. Koppula, H.G. Stenger, I.E. Wachs, Appl.
Catal. B: Environ. 19 (1998) 103.
[28] J.P. Dunn, H.G. Stenger, I.E. Wachs, Catal. Today 51 (1999)
301.
[29] J.P. Dunn, H.G. Stenger, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 181 (1999)
233.
[30] G.C. Bond, S. Flamerz, R. Shukri, Faraday Discuss. Chem.
Soc. 87 (1989) 65.
[31] J. Huuhtanen, S.L.T. Andersson, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 98
(1993) 159.
[32] B.I. Whittington, J.R. Anderson, J. Phys. Chem. 97 (1993)
1032.
[33] H.H. Patterson, J. Cheng, S. Despres, M. Sunamoto, M.
Anpo, J. Phys. Chem. 95 (1991) 8813.
[34] S.G. Zhang, S. Higashimoto, H. Yamashita, M. Anpo, J.
Phys. Chem. B 102 (1998) 5590.
[35] M.A. Banares, L.J. Alemany, M.L. Granados, M. Faraldos,
J.L.G. Fierro, Catal. Today 33 (1997) 73.
[36] A. Parmaliana, F. Fursteri, A. Mezzapica, M.S. Scurrell, N.
Giordano, J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. (1993) 751.
[37] R.G. Herman, Q. Sun, C. Shi, K. Klier, C.B. Wang, H. Hu,
I.E. Wachs, M.M. Bhasin, Catal. Today 37 (1997) 1.
[38] K.T. Li, T.Y. Chien, Catal. Lett. 57 (1999) 77.
[39] M.J. Bagajewicz, S.S. Tamhankar, M.F. Stephanopoulos,
G.R. Gavalas, Environ. Sci. Technol. 22 (1998) 467.
[40] B.M. Reddy, E.P. Reddy, I. Ganesh, Res. Chem. Intermed.
23 (1997) 703.
[41] B.M. Reddy, I. Ganesh, B. Chowdhury, Chem. Lett. (1997)
1145.
[42] B.M. Reddy, E.P. Reddy, I. Ganesh, M.V. Kumar, Ind. J.
Chem. Technol. 4 (1997) 256.
[43] F.L. Wang, T.F. Tsai, L.C. Yu, I.Z. Hu, Y.P. Yen, Catal. Lett.
42 (1996) 155.
[44] Z.Y. Dang, J.F. Gu, J.Z. Lin, D.X. Yang, Chem. Commun.
(1996) 1901.
[45] F.L. Wang, L. Yu, W.S. Lee, W.F. Yang, J. Chem. Soc.,
Chem. Commun. (1994) 811.
[46] F.L. Wang, W.S. Lee, Y.F. Liou, L.C. Chen, Ind. Eng. Chem.
Res. 32 (1993) 30.
[47] F.L. Wang, L.C. Chen, J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun.
(1991) 1760.
[48] M. Vassileva, A. Andreev, S. Dancheva, Appl. Catal. 69
(1991) 221.
[49] L. Forni, F. Gianetti, Chim. Ind. Milan 62 (1980) 101.
[50] S. Ishida, S. Imamura, F. Ren, Y. Tatematsu, Y. Fujimara,
React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 46 (1992) 199.
[51] P.R.H.P. Rao, A.V. Ramaswamy, J. Chem. Soc., Chem.
Commun. (1992) 1245.
[52] A. Khodakov, B. Olthof, A.T. Bell, E. Iglesia, J. Catal. 181
(1999) 205.
[53] K. Chen, A. Khodakov, J. Yang, A.T. Bell, E. Iglesia, J.
Catal. 186 (1999) 325.
[54] P. Concepcion, J.M. Lopez Nieto, J. Perez-Pariente, J. Mol.
Catal. A: Chem. 99 (1995) 173.
[55] P.R.H.P. Rao, A.V. Ramaswamy, P. Ratnasamy, J. Catal. 137
(1992) 225.
[56] M.S. Rigutto, H. van Bekkum, J. Mol. Catal. 81 (1993) 77.
[57] P.R.H.P. Rao, A.V. Ramaswamy, Appl. Catal. 93 (1993) 123.
[58] B.M. Weckhuysen, D. Wang, M.P. Rosynek, J.H. Lunsford,
J. Catal. 175 (1998) 338.
[59] B.M. Weckhuysen, D. Wang, M.P. Rosynek, J.H. Lunsford,
J. Catal. 175 (1998) 347.
[60] D.L. Kepert, The Early Transition Elements, Academic
Press, London, 1972.
[61] W.N. Delgass, G.L. Haller, R. Kellerman, J.H. Lunsford,
Spectroscopy in Heterogeneous Catalysis, Academic Press,
New York, 1979.
[62] I.E. Wachs (Ed.), Characterization of Catalytic Materials,
Butterworths–Heineman, New York, 1992.
[63] J.H.
Niemantsverdriet,
Spectroscopy
in
Catalysis,
An
Introduction, VCH, Weinheim, 1993.
[64] F.
Dalannay
(Ed.),
Characterization
of
Heterogeneous
Catalysts, Dekker, New York, 1984.
[65] B.M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Commun. (2002) 97.
[66] P. Concepcion, B.M. Reddy, H. Knozinger, Phys. Chem.
Chem. Phys. 1 (1999) 3031.
[67] L.J. Burcham, I.E. Wachs, Catal. Today 49 (1999) 467.
[68] K. Hadjiivanov, P. Concepcion, H. Knozinger, Top. Catal.
11 (2000) 123.
[69] I.E. Wachs, Colloids Surf. A: Physochem. Eng. Aspects 105
(1995) 143.
[70] M.A. Centeno, I. Carrizosa, J.A. Odriozola, Appl. Catal. B:
Environ. 29 (2001) 307.
[71] G. Martra, F. Arena, S. Collucia, F. Frusteri, A. Parmaliana,
Catal. Today 63 (2000) 197.
[72] N.-Y. Topsoe, Science 265 (1994) 1217.
[73] N.-Y. Topsoe, J.A. Dumesic, H. Topsoe, J. Catal. 151 (1995)
241.
[74] N.-Y. Topsoe, H. Topsoe, J.A. Dumesic, J. Catal. 151 (1995)
226.
[75] L.J. Burcham, L.E. Briand, I.E. Wachs, Langmuir 17 (2001)
6164.
[76] I.E. Wachs, J.M. Jehng, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, V.V.
Guliants, J.B. Benziger, S. Sundaresan, J. Catal. 170 (1997)
75.
[77] U. Sharf, M. Schraml-Marth, A. Wokaun, A. Baiker, J.
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 87 (1991) 3299.
[78] T.J. Dines, C.H. Rochester, A.M. Ward, J. Chem. Soc.,
Faraday Trans. 87 (1991) 1617.
[79] F. Hatayama, T. Ohno, T. Maruoka, T. Ono, H. Miyata, J.
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 87 (1991) 2629.
[80] A. Burkart, W. Weisweiler, J.A.A. van den Tillaart, A.
Schafer-Sindlinger, A.S. Lox, Top. Catal. 16 (2001) 369.
[81] B. Olthof, A. Khodakov, A.T. Bell, E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem.
B 104 (2000) 1516.
[82] D.A. Bulushev, L. Kiwi-Minsker, A. Renken, Catal. Today
57 (2000) 231.
[83] I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, M.A. Vuurman, H. Hu, D.S. Kim, J.M.
Jehng, J. Mol. Catal. 82 (1993) 443.
[84] M.A. Vuurman, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. 96 (1992) 5008.
[85] I.E. Wachs, Top. Catal. 8 (1999) 57.
[86] F.D. Hardcastle, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. 95 (1991) 5031.
[87] G.J. Wang, H.C. Ma, Y. Li, Z.Y. Liu, React. Kinet. Catal.
Lett. 74 (2001) 103.
44
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
[88] J. Haber, P. Nowak, E.M. Serwicka, I.E. Wachs, Bull. Pol.
Acad. Sci. Chem. 48 (2000) 337.
[89] V. Luca, D.J. Macklachlan, R. Bramley, Phys. Chem. Chem.
Phys. 1 (1999) 2597.
[90] M.C. Paganini, L. Dall’Acqua, E. Giamello, L. Lietti, P.
Forzatti, G. Busca, J. Catal. 166 (1997) 195.
[91] M. Che, B. Canosa, A.R. Gonzalez-Elipe, J. Phys. Chem.
90 (1986) 618.
[92] A. Davidson, M. Che, J. Phys. Chem. 96 (1992) 9909.
[93] K.V.R. Chary, B.M. Reddy, N.K. Nag, V.S. Subrahmanyam,
C.S. Sunandana, J. Phys. Chem. 88 (1984) 2622.
[94] K.V.R. Chary, G. Kishan, T. Bhaskar, C. Sivaraj, J. Phys.
Chem. B 102 (1998) 6792.
[95] A. Adamski, Z. Sojka, K. Dyrek, M. Che, Solid State Ionics
117 (1999) 113.
[96] C.B. Rodella, P.A.P. Nascente, V.R. Mastelaro, M.R. Zucchi,
R.W.A. Franco, C.J. Magon, P. Donoso, A.O. Florentino, J.
Vac. Sci. Technol. A: Vac. Surf. Films 19 (2001) 1158.
[97] M.A. Eberhardt, A. Proctor, M. Houalla, D.M. Hercules, J.
Catal. 160 (1996) 27.
[98] M.A. Eberhardt, M. Houalla, D.M. Hercules, Surf. Interface
Anal. 20 (1993) 766.
[99] B.M. Reddy, B. Chowdhury, E.P. Reddy, A. Fernandez,
Langmuir 17 (2001) 1132.
[100] F. Prinetto, G. Ghiotti, M. Occhiuzzi, V. Indovina, J. Phys.
Chem. B 102 (1998) 10316.
[101] M. Wark, A. Bruckner, T. Liese, W. Grunert, J. Catal. 175
(1998) 48.
[102] M.A. Vuurman, I.E. Wachs, A.M. Hirt, J. Phys. Chem. 95
(1991) 9928.
[103] J.J.P. Biermann, F.J.J.G. Janssen, J.R.H. Ross, J. Phys. Chem.
94 (1990) 8598.
[104] M. Faraldos, J.A. Anderson, M.A. Banares, J.L.G. Fierro,
S.W. Weller, J. Catal. 168 (1997) 110.
[105] G.C. Bond, J. Perez Zurita, S. Flamerz, Appl. Catal. 27
(1986) 353.
[106] H. Eckert, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. 93 (1989) 6796.
[107] N. Das, H. Eckert, H. Hu, I.E. Wachs, J.F. Walzer, F.J.
Feher, J. Phys. Chem. 97 (1993) 8240.
[108] J.H. Miller, L.J. Lakshimi, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 144
(1999) 451.
[109] P. Kalinkin, O. Kovalenko, O. Lapina, D. Khabibulin, N.
Kundo, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 178 (2002) 173.
[110] O.B. Lapina, M.A. Matsko, T.B. Mikenas, V.A. Zkaharov,
E.A. Paukshtis, D.F. Khabibulin, A.P. Sobolev, Kinet. Catal.
42 (2001) 609.
[111] V.V. Terskikh, O.B. Lapina, V.M. Bondareva, Phys. Chem.
Chem. Phys. 2 (2000) 2441.
[112] A.A. Shubin, O.B. Lapina, V.M. Bondareva, Chem. Phys.
Lett. 302 (1999) 341.
[113] A.A. Shubin, O.B. Lapina, D. Courcot, Catal. Today 56
(2000) 379.
[114] V.M. Bondareva, T.V. Andrushkevich, O.B. Lapina, Catal.
Today 61 (2000) 173.
[115] O.B.
Lapina,
D.F.
Khabibulin,
A.A.
Shubin,
V.M.
Bondareva, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 162 (2000) 381.
[116] X.T. Gao, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. B 104 (2000) 1261.
[117] X.T. Gao, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 188 (1999) 325.
[118] B.M.
Weckhuysen,
I.P.
Vannijvel,
R.A.
Schoonheydt,
Zeolites 15 (1995) 482.
[119] E.V. Kondratenko, M. Baerns, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 222
(2001) 133.
[120] K. Tran, M.A. Hanning-Lee, A. Biswas, A.E. Stiegman,
G.W. Scott, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 117 (1995) 2618.
[121] M. Ruitenbeek, F.M.F. de Groot, A.J. van Dillen, D.C.
Koningsberger, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 130 (2000) 3101.
[122] M. Ruitenbeek, A.J. van Dillen, F.M.F. de Groot, I.E. Wachs,
J.W. Geus, D.C. Koningsberger, Top. Catal. 10 (2000) 241.
[123] T. Okuhara, K. Inumaru, M. Misono, N. Matsubayashi, H.
Shimada, A. Nishijima, Catal. Lett. 20 (1993) 73.
[124] K. Inumaru, T. Okuhara, M. Misono, N. Matusbayashi, H.
Shimada, A. Nishijima, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 87
(1991) 1807.
[125] K. Inumaru, T. Okuhara, M. Misono, N. Matsubayashi, H.
Shimada, A. Nishijima, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 88
(1992) 625.
[126] T. Tanaka, Y. Nishimura, S. Kawasaki, T. Funabiki, S.
Yoshida, J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. (1987) 506.
[127] R. Kozlowski, R.F. Pettifer, J.M. Thomas, J. Chem. Soc.,
Chem. Commun. (1983) 438.
[128] R. Kozlowski, R.F. Pettifer, J.M. Thomas, J. Phys. Chem.
87 (1983) 5172.
[129] R. Kozlowski, R.F. Pettifer, J.M. Thomas, J. Phys. Chem.
87 (1983) 5176.
[130] B.G. Silbernagel, J. Catal. 56 (1979) 315.
[131] R.K. Sharma, K.N. Rai, R.D. Srivastiva, J. Catal. 106 (1987)
471.
[132] T. Tanaka, M. Ooe, T. Funabaki, S. Yoshida, J. Chem. Soc.,
Faraday Trans. I 84 (1988) 3547.
[133] G. Busca, F. Cavani, F. Triﬁro, J. Catal. 106 (1987) 471.
[134] B. Jonson, B. Rebenstorf, R. Larsson, S.L.T. Andersson, J.
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 84 (1988) 3547.
[135] J. Zhu, S.L.T. Andersson, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 85
(1989) 3629.
[136] J. Zhu, B. Rebenstorf, S.L.T. Andersson, J. Chem. Soc.,
Faraday Trans. 85 (1989) 3645.
[137] N.D. Spencer, C.J. Pereira, J. Catal. 116 (1989) 399.
[138] M. Nakamura, K. Kawai, Y. Fujiwara, J. Catal. 34 (1974)
345.
[139] Y. Murakami, M. Niwa, T. Hattori, S.I. Osawa, I. Igushi, H.
Ando, J. Catal. 49 (1977) 83.
[140] D.C. Agarwal, P.C. Nigam, R.D. Srivastava, J. Catal. 55
(1978) 1.
[141] K. Mori, A. Miyamato, Y. Murakami, J. Catal. 95 (1985)
482.
[142] V.I.E. Bruyere, L.A.G. Rodenas, P.J. Morando, M.A. Blesa,
J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. (2001) 3593.
[143] O.V. Klimov, M.A. Fedotov, A.N. Startsev, J. Catal. 139
(1993) 142.
[144] M. Baltes, P. Van Der Voort, O. Collart, E.F. Vansant, J.
Porous Mater. 5 (1998) 357.
[145] M. Baltes, O. Collart, P. Van Der Voort, E.F. Vansant,
Langmuir 15 (1999) 5841.
[146] P. Van Der Voort, M. Baltes, E.F. Vansant, Catal. Today 68
(2001) 121.
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
45
[147] P. Van Der Voort, M.G. White, E.F. Vansant, Langmuir 14
(1998) 106.
[148] P. Van Der Voort, K. Possemiers, E.F. Vansant, J. Chem.
Soc., Faraday Trans. 92 (1996) 843.
[149] A. Wokaun, M. Schraml-Marth, A. Baiker, J. Catal. 116
(1989) 595.
[150] M.D. Amiridis, I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, J.M. Jehng, D.S. Kim,
J. Catal. 161 (1996) 247.
[151] P.M. Michalakos, K. Birkeland, H.H. Kung, J. Catal. 158
(1996) 349.
[152] M.A. Vuurman, D.J. Stufkens, A. Oskam, G. Deo, I.E.
Wachs, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. I 92 (1996) 3259.
[153] J.M. Jehng, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, I.E. Wachs, J. Mol.
Catal. A: Chem. 110 (1996) 41.
[154] V.I. Marshneva, E.M. Slavisnkaya, O.V. Kalinkina, G.V.
Odegova, E.M. Moroz, G.V. Lavrova, A.N. Salanov, J. Catal.
155 (1995) 171.
[155] K. Inumaru, T. Okuhara, M. Misono, J. Phys. Chem. 95
(1991) 4826.
[156] K. Inumaru, M. Misono, T. Okuhara, Appl. Catal. A: Gen.
149 (1997) 133.
[157] G. Centi, D. Pinelli, F. Triﬁro, D. Ghoussoub, M. Guelton,
L. Gengembre, J. Catal. 130 (1991) 238.
[158] J. Keranen, A. Auroux, S. Ek, L. Niinisto, Appl. Catal. A:
Gen. 228 (2002) 213.
[159] G. Centi, E. Giamello, D. Pijnelli, F. Triﬁro, J. Catal. 130
(1991) 220.
[160] D.A. Bulushev, L. Kiwi-Minsker, A. Renken, Catal. Today
57 (2000) 231.
[161] C.B. Wang, Y. Cai, I.E. Wachs, Langmuir 15 (1999) 1223.
[162] Y. Cai, C.B. Wang, I.E. Wachs, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 110
(1997) 255.
[163] T. Machej, J. Haber, A.M. Turek, I.E. Wachs, Appl. Catal.
70 (1991) 115.
[164] M.M. Koranne, J.G. Goodwin, G. Marcelin, J. Catal. 148
(1994) 378.
[165] M. Faraldos, M.A. Banares, J.A. Anerson, H. Hu, I.E. Wachs,
J.L.G. Fierro, J. Catal. 160 (1996) 214.
[166] B. Taouk, M. Guelton, J. Grimblot, J.P. Bonnelle, J. Phys.
Chem. 92 (1988) 6700.
[167] F. Roozeboom, M.C. Mittelmeijer-Hazeleger, J.A. Moulijn,
J. Medema, V.H.J. de Beer, P.J. Gellings, J. Phys. Chem.
84 (1980) 2783.
[168] M. Schraml-Marth, A. Wokaun, M. Pohl, H.L. Krauss, J.
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 87 (1991) 2635.
[169] B. Jonson, B. Rebenstorf, R. Larsson, S.L.T. Andersson, S.T.
Lundin, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. I 84 (1988) 1897.
[170] G.T. Went, S.T. Oyama, A.T. Bell, J. Phys. Chem. 94 (1990)
4240.
[171] S.T. Oyama, J. Catal. 128 (1991) 210.
[172] J. Haber, A. Kozlowska, R. Kozlowski, J. Catal. 102 (1986)
52.
[173] A.M. De Aguilar Cruz, J.G. Eon, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 167
(1998) 203.
[174] A.A. Lemonidou, L. Nalbandian, I.A. Vasalos, Catal. Today
61 (2000) 333.
[175] T. Blasco, J.M. Lopez Nieto, Colloid Surf. A: Physicochem.
Eng. Aspects 115 (1996) 187.
[176] B. Jonson, B. Rebenstorf, R. Larsson, S.L.T. Andersson,
S.T. Lundin, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. I 82 (1986) 767.
[177] F.J. Gil-Llambias, A.M. Escudey, J.L.G. Fierro, A. Lopez
Agudo, J. Catal. 95 (1985) 520.
[178] C.R. Dias, M.F. Portela, G.C. Bond, J. Catal. 157 (1995)
344.
[179] G.T. Went, L.J. Leu, R.R. Rosin, A.T. Bell, J. Catal. 34
(1992) 492.
[180] M. Sanati, A. Anderson, L.R. Wallenberg, B. Rebenstorf,
Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 106 (1993) 51.
[181] A. Khokadov, J. Yang, S. Su, E. Iglesia, A.T. Bell, J. Catal.
177 (1998) 343.
[182] S.C. Su, A.T. Bell, J. Phys. Chem. B 102 (1998) 7000.
[183] B.M. Weckhuysen, I.E. Wachs, in: H.S. Nalwa (Ed.),
Handbook of Surfaces and Interfaces of Materials, vol. 1,
Academic Press, San Diego, 2001, p. 613.
[184] G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. 95 (1991) 5889.
[185] G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 146 (1994) 335.
[186] D.E. Keller, M. Ruitenbeek, F.M.F. de Groot, I.E. Wachs,
D.C. Koningsberger, B.M. Weckhuysen, submitted for
publication.
[187] A.M. Turek, I.E. Wachs, E. DeCanio, J. Phys. Chem. 96
(1992) 5000.
[188] I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 157
(1997) 67.
[189] B.M. Weckhuysen, J.M. Jehng, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem.
B 104 (2000) 7382.
[190] A. Corma, J.M. Lopez Nieto, N. Paredes, Appl. Catal. A:
Gen. 104 (1993) 161.
[191] D. Siew Hev Sam, V. Soenen, J.C. Volta, J. Catal. 123
(1990) 417.
[192] X. Gao, P. Ruiz, Q. Xin, X. Guo, B. Delmon, J. Catal. 148
(1994) 56.
[193] E. Harlin, Molybdenum and vanadium oxide catalysts in
the dehydrogenation of butanes, Ph.D. Thesis, Helsinki
University of Technology, Finland, 2001.
[194] M.M. Koranne, J.G. Goodwin
Jr., G. Marcelin, J. Catal.
148 (1994) 203.
[195] J. Haber, A. Kozlowska, R. Kozlowski, J. Catal. 102 (1986)
52.
[196] M.E. Harlin, V.M. Niemi, A.O.I. Krause, J. Catal. 195 (2000)
67.
[197] M.E. Harlin, V.M. Niemi, A.O.I. Krause, B.M. Weckhuysen,
J. Catal. 203 (2001) 242.
[198] I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, M.V. Juskelis, B.M. Weckhuysen, Stud.
Surf. Sci. Catal. 109 (1997) 305.
[199] G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 146 (1994) 323.
[200] I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, A. Andreini, M.A.
Vuurman, M. De Boer, M.D. Amiridis, J. Catal. 161 (1996)
211.
[201] I.E. Wachs, J.M. Jehng, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, V.V.
Guliants, J.B. Benziger, Catal. Today 32 (1996) 47.
[202] I.E. Wachs, J.M. Jehng, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, V.V.
Guliants, J.B. Benziger, S. Sundaresan, J. Catal. 170 (1997)
75.
[203] D.E. Keller, M. Ruitenbeek, F.M.F. De Groot, D.C. Konin-
gsberger, B.M. Weckhuysen, submitted for publication.
46
B.M. Weckhuysen, D.E. Keller / Catalysis Today 78 (2003) 25–46
[204] J.S. Magee, M.M. Mitchell, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 76 (1993)
105.
[205] P.C.H. Mitchell, C.E. Scott, J.P. Bonnelle, J.G. Grimblot, J.
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. I 81 (1985) 1047.
[206] P.C.H. Mitchell, C.E. Scott, Polyhedron 5 (1986) 237.
[207] H. Knozinger, D. Cordischi, B Vielhaber, Catal. Today 7
(1990) 447.
[208] C.A. Truhillo, U.N. Uribe, P.P. Knops-Gerrits, L.A. Oviedo,
P.A. Jacobs, J. Catal. 168 (1997) 1.
[209] M.T. Xu, X.S. Liu, R.J. Madon, J. Catal.
207 (2002)
237.
[210] G. Catana, R. Ramachandra Rao, B.M. Weckhuysen, P. Van
Der Voort, E.F. Vansant, R.A. Schoonheydt, J. Phys. Chem.
B 102 (1998) 8005.
[211] G. Catana, W. Grunert, P. Van Der Voort, E.F. Vansant,
R.A. Schoonheydt, B.M. Weckhuysen, J. Phys. Chem. B
104 (2000) 9195.
