Unconventional Chemistry for Unconventional Natural Gas
element not found
Making most of our fuels and chemicals from fossil hydrocarbons is unsustainable. However, until costeffective renewable sources are developed, natural gas could provide a secure economical alternative to petroleum. Proven reserves of natural gas have doubled in the last decade (1), mainly from increases in “unconventional” gas found with shale (shale gas), coal (coal bed methane), and in low-permeability “tight” sandstones (tight gas) (see the first figure). Today, because it is not easy to convert methane into heavier molecules, natural gas (composed largely of methane) is mostly burned for heating and electrical power generation; a tiny fraction is used in vehicles. Cost-effective conversion of natural gas into higher-value chemical intermediates and liquid products could reduce our need for oil and help lower its shipping costs, which are higher than those of petroleum or coal on an energy-delivered basis. In addition, such processes might recover the large quantities of gas now flared or vented from fossil reservoirs (2).
The challenge in converting natural gas into liquids, olefins, alcohols, ethers, and other high-value products is to exploit reactions that only partially oxidize alkanes and stop short of complete combustion to CO2. Improvements in process efficiency and economics will come when new chemistry is integrated into novel engineering systems. Process chemistry—including free-radical routes or catalytic partial oxidation—already allows a fraction of the heavier alkanes in natural gas (ethane, propane, and butane) to be converted into more-valuable chemical products. Further innovations should increase the efficiency and expand the uses of these products and may also lead to ways to harness methane, which is typically between 70 and 90% of the carbon in natural gas.
Today, we activate most light alkanes by homolytically cleaving bonds using high temperatures (cracking) to create a complex radical reaction network that produces mixtures of coproducts and hydrogen (H2). Almost all industrial chemical processing of natural gas is performed with steam. In “steam crackers,” the steam acts as a relatively unreactive diluent that favors fragmented radical formation and minimizes solid carbon (coke). Direct reaction with water is kinetically limited by very short reaction times. A high yield of ethylene and propylene can be achieved under properly selected reaction conditions when the primary feed is ethane; but steam cracking still produces a mixture of olefin products along with other hydrocarbons and H2. Adjusting the conditions can bring the reaction toward equilibrium in “steam reforming,” where synthesis gas (H2 and CO) is produced. Reforming of light alkanes accounts for ∼50% of the world's H2 production used to produce ammonia and other important commodity chemicals. Synthesis gas made by reforming natural gas is used to make over 45 billion kg of methanol per year and high molecular weight linear alkanes (3).
SIGN UP FOR THE SCIENCEADVISER NEWSLETTER
The latest news, commentary, and research, free to your inbox daily
SIGN UP
It would seem that between cracking for olefin production and reforming to make synthesis gas, all of the chemistry needed to make use of natural gas is already available. However, steam cracking of ethane produces a mixture of products, ∼15% of which are not high-value chemicals. Steam reforming is costly; it requires high operating pressures and temperatures (15 to 40 atm, 700° to 1000°C) in expensive reactors with heat transfer and coke management challenges. Overall efficiencies are 75% or lower. New low-temperature, high-yield alkane conversion chemistries that are relatively insensitive to common natural gas impurities are needed if we want to do better than cracking and reforming.
The problem is to both activate the strong C−H bonds and, under the same conditions, maintain control of the subsequent reaction intermediates and elementary steps—the sites for activation of C−H bonds must be relatively inactive for further oxidation. In general, greater selectivity comes at the cost of lower reaction rates. In nature, methane monooxygenase systems can have tremendous selectivity to partial oxidation products such as methanol; however, the conditions and overall volumetric rates cannot be scaled up for large chemical production volumes.
Changing production sources.Worldwide, about half of the known natural gas is in “conventional,” highly permeable geologic formations, often together with liquid petroleum. The other half is the “unconventional gas” found in more diffuse, low-permeability geologic formations. In the United States, conventional gas production peaked in the 1990s and today represents less than half of the annual U.S. gas production (15).
Under milder conditions than required for cracking or reforming, catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes selectively produces olefins and H2. Worldwide, more than 100 billion kg of olefins are produced per year, and demand for propylene is increasing faster than it can be produced from traditional sources. Catalytic dehydrogenation provides selectivity to a single olefin product much higher than from cracking and can make use of the abundant propane in shale gas. The endothermic reaction requires substantial energy input, low reaction pressures, and a high temperature (∼500°C) to achieve even a low conversion. The alkane/olefin separation is difficult, requiring high pressure and low temperature. New engineering solutions such as low-cost hydrogen-membrane reactors to selectively remove hydrogen can help improve yields by driving the equilibrium-limited reaction forward. Use of innovative chemistry to selectively remove (react) the hydrogen produced from alkane dehydrogenation without affecting the partial oxidation product is a major challenge for chemists. A long-sought goal is high yields from oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) using oxygen to react away the hydrogen. Selective ODH of butane in DuPont's maleic anhydride process uses a solid oxidizing agent, vanadium phosphorus oxide, to limit butane's oxidation. The solid is reoxidized in a separate reaction step. The overall process is profitable and shows that cost-effective partial oxidation is possible.
Although there has been commercial success in making butadiene for rubber by ODH of butene with O2, the high-yield production of olefins from alkanes by ODH has proven more challenging. Some progress for partial oxidation of other alkanes has been made with vanadium and molybdenum oxides (4). A single commercial plant in the Middle East uses a molybdenum-based oxide catalyst to convert very low-cost ethane to acetic acid; substantial improvements in ODH catalysts are still needed for widespread adoption.
A small amount of iodine facilitates the selective ODH of butane over metal oxide catalysts (5). Iodine may participate in the same kinetic steps occurring in oxyhalogenations whereby hydrogen halides are oxidized by O2 to form reactive halogens, which in turn oxidize the alkanes, resulting in readily separated alkyl halide products. Recent work combining theory and experiment has improved our understanding of methane oxyhalogenation as a potentially selective partial oxidation pathway (6). Oxyhalogenation has been evaluated by industrial scientists as the lowest-cost natural gas-to-liquids (GTL) conversion process for converting methane to liquid fuels (7). Oxychlorination of ethane to produce vinyl chloride is a commercial process competing successfully with the less direct conversion of an ethylene intermediate to vinyl chloride.
Natural gas conversion with halogens.Bromine reacts with methane to produce methylbromide, which behaves chemically like methanol and can be reacted over zeolite catalysts to produce aromatic-rich liquid fuels or olefins. The HBr coproduct can be oxidized in air (above) or electrochemically converted to bromine and hydrogen (below). The electrochemical step might use intermittent renewable electricity sources (such as solar or wind).
In all the oxyhalogenation processes, corrosive components must be safely managed, which can increase the capital and maintenance costs substantially. With advances in corrosion science, lower cost, corrosion-resistant materials are increasingly available and may enable large-scale processes to be implemented safely and economically. One example is a platinum-catalyzed homogeneous system for conversion from methane to methyl bisulfate (CH3OSO3H) in sulfuric acid, which can achieve ∼90% selectivity (8). The reactivity of the methyl bisulfate on the Pt catalyst active site is lower than that of the methane reactant, overcoming a major limitation of other alkane activation catalysts, and resulting in a single-pass yield of more than 70%.
Non–oxygen-containing oxidizing agents that might allow more control over the thermodynamics are promising alternatives that can eliminate water and carbon oxides as potential by-products. Oxidizing light alkanes with bromine or chlorine is facile under mild conditions and produces stable alkylhalides that are readily converted to halogen-free products. Bromine is used commonly for functionalization in organic synthesis because it is relatively easy to add and easy to remove (the C−Br bond is weaker than the C−Cl bond). Furthermore, bromine's high molecular weight makes the alkylbromides easy to separate by distillation from nonbrominated hydrocarbons. Ethyl or propyl bromides form with high selectivity and are readily dehydrobrominated to ethylene or propylene or oligomerized to high molecular weight hydrocarbons (9). Under moderate conditions, methane reacts with bromine to produce a high yield of methylbromide and HBr. By-products are readily separated, and dibromomethane reacts on transition metals with H2 to produce similar products, as observed from Fischer-Tropsch chemistry with synthesis gas (10). Methylhalides, especially methylbromide, behave chemically like methanol on zeolites (see the second figure) to produce olefins or liquid fuels (11–13). Much less heat is generated, and there is no need to first produce methanol.
Ultimately, the bromine used for activation must be regenerated, either by oxidation of the HBr or by electrolysis to produce Br2 and H2 (see the second figure). Electrochemical recovery of bromine could make use of renewable process integration whereby temporally varying wind or solar electricity is used to drive electrolysis of stored HBr to produce a bromine (a liquid at room temperature) reservoir used continuously in the hydrocarbon process.
Low-cost natural gas availability has beaten all expectations. In 2005, the U.S. government and chemical industry were preparing to import massive quantities of liquefied natural gas because of expected shortfalls in domestic supplies, and in 2008, coal was announced as the future hydrocarbon feedstock of choice (14). It is likely that natural gas, and possibly methane hydrates, will provide ample supplies of light alkanes for chemical processing for decades to come. A major challenge for chemical science is to invent new efficient and cost-effective processes for making use of alternative resources to replace those now made from oil. Such processes using natural gas are part of a stepwise transition toward a future where fuels and chemicals are produced from economically and environmentally sustainable sources.