JOURNAL OF CATAL
YSIS 168, 75–94 (1997)
ARTICLE NO. CA971617
Isobutane Dehydrogenation on Pt–Sn/SiO2 Catalysts: Effect
of Preparation Variables and Regeneration Treatments
S. M. Stagg,∗C. A. Querini,† W. E. Alvarez,∗,1 and D. E. Resasco∗,2
∗University of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma 73072; and †INCAPE Institute, Santa Fe, Argentina
Received August 23, 1996; revised January 27, 1997; accepted January 27, 1997
The dehydrogenation of isobutane was studied under severely
deactivating conditions, i.e., high temperatures and in the absence
of added H2, over silica-supported Pt–Sn catalysts. Several prepara-
tion methods were investigated. It was found that the impregnation
method employed has a strong inﬂuence on the degree of Pt–Sn
interaction and the fraction of Pt that remains unalloyed after the
calcination and reduction process. The co-impregnation methods
investigated were signiﬁcantly superior to the sequential method. It
was found that it is important to minimize the amount of unalloyed
Pt left on the catalyst because this fraction rapidly forms coke and
deactivates. At the same time, the fraction of unalloyed Pt, rather
than the one alloyed with Sn, is responsible for most of the CO
and hydrogen adsorbed at room temperature in typical chemisorp-
tion measurements. As a consequence, the TOF values based on
this type of measurements are in error because they are not related
to the density of sites that are responsible for long term activity.
It was also found that the high-temperature reduction/oxidation
treatments usually employed to regenerate spent catalysts can have
a detrimental effect on the activity and selectivity of the Pt–Sn/SiO2
catalysts. It is postulated that such thermal treatments lead to the
disruption of the Pt–Sn alloys causing an increase in the fraction of
unalloyed surface Pt. As a result, the rates of coke formation and
deactivation drastically increase. The monometallic (Pt only) cata-
lysts are also affected by the high-temperature reduction/oxidation
processes. The oxidation treatment results in an increased rate of
coke formation and deactivation, while the regeneration process re-
sults in a much smaller effect. This difference may be due to carbon
residues left on the surface. These residues may disrupt Pt ensem-
bles and cause a decrease in the rate of undesired reactions, such
as hydrogenolysis and coking, that require a large ensemble of Pt
atoms.
c
⃝1997 Academic Press
INTRODUCTION
Recent increases in demand of light oleﬁns for the pro-
duction of polymers and gasoline additives such as MTBE
have increased the interest in lower alkane dehydrogena-
1 Permanent address: INTEMA, University of Mar del Plata,
Argentina.
2 To whom correspondence should be addressed. Fax: (405) 325-5813.
E-mail: resasco@ou.edu.
tion (1). The conditions best suited for this reaction, high
temperatures, low pressures, and low hydrogen concentra-
tions, favor rapid deactivation due to coke formation on the
catalyst. On Pt-based catalysts, it is sometimes necessary
to add hydrogen to the feed to reduce deactivation. How-
ever, in commercial applications, the use of high hydro-
gen/hydrocarbon feed ratios is highly undesirable because
the equilibrium conversion decreases and the compression
costs greatly increase.
Research has found that the addition of promoters, such
as Sn, to Pt catalysts enhances their catalytic ability for de-
hydrogenation (2, 3). One explanation for the enhanced
properties of the promoted catalysts is the formation of al-
loys between the Pt and the Sn which reduces the size of Pt
ensembles (4, 5), decreasing coke formation and increasing
selectivity. It has also been suggested that Sn may modify
the catalytic properties of Pt by electronic or ligand effects
(6, 7). This modiﬁcation may be responsible for changes in
the heat of adsorption of different adsorbates participating
in the reaction (8, 9).
Even though Sn is one of the most efﬁcient promoters
employed in commercial processes (10, 11), deactivation
due to coke formation is not completely eliminated and
the catalysts still exhibit short lifetimes and must undergo
continuous or frequent regenerations to maintain activity
(12). The regeneration typically consists of exposing the
spent catalyst to oxygen or air at high temperatures to burn
off any carbon produced during the reaction, followed by
a reduction step that brings the catalyst back to the active
(metallic) form.
One of the issues that we explore in this contribu-
tion is the possibility that the exposure to such reduc-
tion/oxidation cycles can cause important changes in the
catalyst morphology that negatively alter the catalytic prop-
erties of the bimetallic catalyst. For example, studies have
shown that Pt–Rh alloys, when heated in air, form parti-
cles with Pt-rich centers and Rh2O3 outer surface (13, 14).
Subsequent reduction results in a metallic Rh layer cover-
ing a Pt core (15). On the other hand, Pt–Pd supported al-
loys behave differently when heated in air at high tempera-
tures.OxidationcausesthePt–Pdalloytoformtwoseparate
75
0021-9517/97 $25.00
Copyright c
⃝1997 by Academic Press
All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.
76
STAGG ET AL.
crystallites of metal and PdO, both in contact with the sil-
ica support (16). When reduced at high temperatures, the
Pd forms metal particles on the edges of the Pt particle.
Work has also been done on Pt–Ir alloys, and it has been
shown that the alloy is completely destroyed when heated
in air (17, 18). For the particular case of Pt–Sn, Verbeek and
Sachtler (7) proposed that, after exposure to air and sub-
sequent reduction, the unsupported Pt–Sn alloys become
surface enriched in Sn at the expense of the subsurface
zone, with the center of the particle getting rich in Pt. More
recently, Chojnacki and Schmidt (19) studied Pt–Sn ﬁlms
supported on planar amorphous silica ﬁlms and found that
exposure to O2 at 550◦C for 1 h resulted in destruction of the
intermetallic species leaving metallic Pt cores surrounded
by a ring of SnO2 in contact with the silica. However, af-
ter subsequent reduction for long periods of time (18 h at
650◦C), complete recombination of the alloys was obtained.
The aim of this paper is to study the interaction be-
tween the active metal (Pt) and the promoter (Sn) following
different preparation methods, as well as the effects of re-
generation treatments on catalytic properties. By using a
combination of characterization techniques and catalytic
activity measurements, we have studied three different
Pt–Sn bimetallic catalysts and analyzed the extent of metal–
metal interaction. It is widely recognized that the support
can strongly affect the metal–metal interaction (20), and if it
contains acidity, it can greatly promote the rate of coke for-
mation under isobutane dehydrogenation conditions (21).
Therefore, we have used a silica support which interacts
very weakly with Pt or Sn and does not contain acidity. We
have found that on this support, the fraction of Pt that be-
comes alloyed with Sn strongly depends on the preparation
method. This fraction in turn has a strong inﬂuence on the
catalytic performance and can be signiﬁcantly altered under
conditions typically encountered during regeneration.
We have also found that the standard method used to re-
port turnover frequencies cannot be applied to the bimetal-
lic Pt–Sn catalysts because the fraction of unalloyed Pt
which is responsible for the adsorption of H2 or CO, gener-
ally used as probes to count sites, rapidly deactivates under
reaction conditions. The rapid deactivation of unalloyed Pt
is particularly important in the absence of added hydrogen.
TABLE 1
Characteristics of the Catalysts Investigated
Catalyst nomenclature
Pt (wt%)
Molar Pt : Sn ratio
Preparation techniques
Solvent
Precursor
Pt (1.0)
1.0
1 : 0
Impregnation
HCl
H2PtCl6
Pt (1.5)
1.5
1 : 0
Impregnation
Water
H2PtCl6
Pt–Sn (CI)
1.5
1 : 1
Co-impregnation
Water
H2PtCl6
Pt–Sn (CIC)
1.0
1 : 1.65
Co-impregnation
HCl
H2PtCl6
Pt–Sn (SI0.3)
0.3
1 : 1.65
Sequential impregnation
Acetone
Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2
Pt–Sn (SI1)
1.0
1 : 1.65
Sequential impregnation
Acetone
Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2
EXPERIMENTAL
Catalyst Preparation
Pt and Pt–Sn catalysts were supported on SiO2 (W. R.
Grace & Co., Silica Gel Grade 923). Table 1 shows the char-
acteristics of the catalysts investigated. They were prepared
by incipient wetness impregnation using SnCl2 · 2H2O and
either H2PtCl6 · 6H2O or Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 as the precur-
sors for the metals. The incipient wetness liquid/solid ra-
tio was determined for each preparation and varied from
0.5 to 0.75 cc/g. Two monometallic Pt samples, (1.5 wt%)
and (1.0 wt%), were prepared by incipient wetness impreg-
nation. The 1.5 wt% Pt was prepared using an aqueous
solution of H2PtCl6 · 6H2O, while for the 1.0 wt% Pt cata-
lyst, a HCl solution was used as the solvent. The bimetallic
catalysts were prepared by three different techniques. One
sample was made by co-impregnation with an aqueous so-
lution containing a 1 : 1 molar ratio of Pt : Sn and will be
referred to as CI. A second set of catalysts was prepared
by sequential impregnation (SI) of Pt followed by Sn. In
this case, Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 was dissolved in water while the
Sn salt was dissolved in acetone. The two sequentially im-
pregnated samples will be referred as SI0.3 (0.3 wt% Pt and
0.3 wt% Sn) and SI1 (1 wt% Pt and 1 wt% Sn). The third
technique used was co-impregnation of 1 wt% Pt and 1 wt%
Sn with a HCl solution as the solvent and will be referred
to as CIC. It has been shown (22) that, in the presence of
HCl, a bimetallic complex PtCl2(SnCl3)2−
2 is formed in solu-
tion and a higher degree of metal–metal interaction should
result. The impregnated samples were dried overnight at
110◦C and stored.
Subsequently, all catalysts were exposed to cycles of re-
duction/oxidation before characterization and activity tests.
The treatments and nomenclature, summarized in Table 2,
are as follows. The term “fresh” is applied to impregnated
samples which were calcined in air at 400◦C for 2 h. Re-
generated samples had initially the same pretreatment as
the fresh ones, but then were reduced in H2 at 500◦C for
1 h, exposed to isobutane at 500◦C, and treated in air for
1 h at 300, 400, or 500◦C to burn any carbonaceous deposits
that formed during reaction. These catalysts will be referred
to as REG300, REG400, and REG500, respectively. Some
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
77
TABLE 2
Summary of the Different Pretreatments Performed
on the Catalysts
Pretreatment
nomenclature
Conditions
Fresh
Calcined in air at 400◦C for 2 h
REG300, REG400,
Fresh sample reduced in H2 at 500◦C for 1 h,
REG500
exposed to reaction conditions at 500◦C
for 1 h, and then exposed to air at 300,
400, and 500◦C, respectively, for 1 h
OX300, OX400, OX500
Fresh sample reduced in H2 at 500◦C for 1 h
and exposed to air at 300, 400, and
500◦C, respectively, for 1 h
fresh samples were reduced and then oxidized in air for 1 h
at 300, 400, and 500◦C without exposure to isobutane. These
samples will be referred to as OX300, OX400, and OX500,
respectively.
Catalyst Characterization
Volumetric H2 chemisorption measurements were per-
formed using a Micromeritics ASAP 2000 system. For each
measurement, 0.6 g of each catalyst was loaded into the
chemisorption cell. The sample was reduced in situ at 500◦C
for 1 h, evacuated to 10−6 Torr at 500◦C, and then cooled
to 35◦C at which the adsorption of H2 was performed.
Chemisorption capacities were measured on fresh, OX300,
OX400, and OX500 samples of Pt (1.5) and Pt–Sn (CI), as
well as on fresh Pt–Sn (CIC).
Dynamic CO chemisorption measurements were carried
out by sending 250-µl pulses of 5% CO/He on 0.3-g sam-
ples of either fresh catalysts, after reduction in H2 for 1 h at
500◦C, or catalysts that had been exposed to reaction condi-
tions. The He used as a carrier and to purge the catalyst was
puriﬁed through a MnO trap before contacting the sample.
A methanator reactor that quantitatively transforms CO
in CH4 was employed to increase the sensitivity of the CO
analysis. A FID detector was used to continuously monitor
the CH4. Details of this technique can be found elsewhere
(23). To determine the CO adsorption capacity, consecu-
tive pulses were sent until the amount of CO leaving the
sample was the same as that by-passing the sample. The ad-
sorption capacity (CO/Pt) was calculated from the sum of
the differences between the by-pass and each pulse.
Transmissionelectronmicroscopy(TEM)wasperformed
on fresh and OX500 samples of a bimetallic catalyst with
Pt : Sn ratio of 1 : 1. Each sample was reduced at 500◦C for
1 h, cooled in He to room temperature, and then slowly
exposed to air overnight. The catalyst was then ground into
a ﬁne powder and suspended in isopropyl alcohol. One drop
of solution was placed on a 0.3-mm-diameter Lacey carbon
grid (Electron Microscopy Sciences) and allowed to dry. All
samples were analyzed using a JEOL 2000FX TEM.
Temperature-programmed
reduction
(TPR)
experi-
ments were performed on fresh samples of Pt, Pt–Sn (CI),
Pt–Sn(CIC),andPt–Sn(SI)inanOKHURATP-2002Ssys-
tem. In addition, TPRs were performed on OX300, OX400,
OX500, and REG500 samples of Pt (1.5) and Pt–Sn (CI).
The sample weight varied from 0.25 to 0.34 g; therefore, all
signals have been normalized to a per gram basis. The TPR
runs were conducted using a heating rate of 10◦C/min in a
ﬂow of 5% H2/Ar (45 cc/min) up to 800◦C. A zeolite trap
was used to eliminate water during the TPR.
Temperature-programmed
oxidation
(TPO)
experi-
ments of carbonaceous deposits deposited under reaction
conditions were conducted on the Pt (1.5) and Pt–Sn (CI)
catalysts.Samplesconsistingof0.1gwereheatedto500◦Cin
a H2 ﬂow (100 cc/min). At 500◦C, each sample was exposed
to isobutane or mixtures of isobutane/H2/He for 15 min and
then cooled to room temperature in He. Once at room tem-
perature, the sample was heated at a rate of 8◦C/min in O2
(30 cc/min) up to 800◦C. TPOs of carbonaceous deposits
were also performed on fresh Pt (1.5) and Pt–Sn (CI) sam-
ples after exposure to pure isobutane for 2 min. The heating
rate was 8◦C/min in a 5% O2/He mixture (30 cc/min). The
exit gases were analyzed using a quadrupole residual gas an-
alyzer from MKS. In order to normalize the pressure data,
200 µl of CO2 was injected three times when the system
reached 800◦C and the average peak area for the injections
was determined. The amount of coke formed on the cata-
lysts under various conditions was determined using the
known moles of CO2 and the area of the injections.
Catalyst Activity
The isobutane dehydrogenation activity was measured
in a ﬂow reactor consisting of a quartz tube with an inner
diameter of 0.4 cm and an outer diameter of 0.6 cm. Sam-
ples consisting of 0.015 g of each catalyst were loaded into
the quartz reactor, supported on both sides by quartz wool.
The samples were reduced in situ at 500◦C for 1 h and then
contacted with the feed gas containing varying concentra-
tions of isobutane in He. The majority of the runs were
conducted in the absence of H2, using a 2 : 1 isobutane : He
ratio, at a ﬂow rate of 36 cc/min, which resulted in a space
velocity of 248 WHSV. The exit gases were analyzed in a
Hewlett Packard GCD equipped with a quadrapole mass
analyzer which identiﬁed all species generated during the
reaction. The conversion was calculated from the area of
the isobutene peak divided by the sum of the areas of all
the species detected. The selectivity was calculated from
the area of the isobutene peak divided by the sum of the
areas of all the products.
To ensure that no heat transport problems occurred,
thermocouples were placed in direct contact with the top
and bottom of the bed during the reaction. In addition,
a third thermocouple was placed at the side of the bed
which was used to control the temperature of the furnace.
78
STAGG ET AL.
The temperature drop across the bed was measured during
the runs, and the largest 1T observed was less than 2◦C.
For a typical activation energy of 20 kcal/mol, this differ-
ence, measured at the highest conversion (approximately
35%) would represent a maximum error of ±1% conver-
sion, which is much less than the typical variations in activ-
ity due to any of the effects that we have considered in the
paper. Similarly, from the application of the Wiesz–Prater
criteria for internal diffusion, we have concluded that mass
transfer limitations were not present in our experiments.
RESULTS
H2 and CO Chemisorption
Table 3 gives the H2 chemisorption data obtained for
fresh samples of Pt (1.5), Pt–Sn (CI), and Pt–Sn (CIC) cata-
lysts, as well as OX300, OX400, and OX500 Pt (1.5) and
Pt–Sn (CI) catalysts. As shown in Table 3, the bimetallic
catalysts Pt–Sn (CI) and, particularly, Pt–Sn (CIC) exhib-
ited signiﬁcantly lower chemisorption capacities than the
monometallic catalysts. For the pure Pt (1.5) sample, vary-
ing the oxidation temperature resulted in only a small vari-
ation in the fraction of Pt exposed. The Pt–Sn (CI) sample
showed an initial decrease in the fraction exposed with oxi-
dation at 300◦C followed by little variation in adsorption ca-
pacity with increasing oxidation temperature. Chemisorp-
tion values on the fresh samples were within the range of
values reported in the literature (15, 24, 25).
The CO adsorption studies were performed on fresh
and spent Pt (1.5 and 1.0), Pt–Sn (CI), and Pt–Sn (CIC)
TABLE 3
Hydrogen and CO Chemisorption and Initial
Turnover Frequencies
Turnover frequencies
(sec−1)
Chemisorption
Per
Based on Based on total
Catalyst
Pretreatment H/Pt
CO/Pt
H/Pt
CO/Pt
Pt
Pt (1.5)
Fresh
0.51
0.38
2.2
3.6
1.12
OX300
0.58
—
2.3
—
—
OX400
0.56
—
—
—
—
OX500
0.49
—
2.4
—
—
Spent
—
0.13
—
—
—
Pt (1.0)
Fresh
—
0.3
—
—
—
Spent
—
0.03
—
—
—
Pt–Sn (CI)
Fresh
0.30
0.1
6.2
20.6
1.86
OX300
0.21
—
7.9
—
—
OX400
0.24
—
7.1
—
—
OX500
0.22
—
4.5
—
—
Spent
—
0.02
—
—
—
Pt–Sn (CIC)
Fresh
0.09
0.06
30.9
46.3
2.78
Spent
—
<0.01
—
—
—
catalysts. Table 3 shows the amount of CO adsorbed by
each catalyst. As in the case of H2 chemisorption, the
monometallic Pt catalysts was found to adsorb much more
CO than the bimetallic samples. The Pt–Sn (CIC) catalyst
showed slightly less CO adsorption than the Pt–Sn (CI)
sample. An interesting result was observed on the spent
catalysts. After 1 h under reaction conditions (500◦C, pure
isobutane, 30 WHSV) the samples were cooled in pure He
and tested by dynamic CO adsorption. As shown in Table 3,
the adsorption capacity of the bimetallic samples, particu-
larly Pt–Sn (CIC), became exceedingly low. It is important
to note that, despite losing their chemisorption capacity,
these samples still retained most of their original activity.
Transmission Electron Microscopy
Figures 1a and 1b show the TEM images of a co-
impregnated 1 : 1 Pt : Sn catalyst. The micrographs repre-
sent respectively the fresh and OX500 samples after re-
duction in H2 at 500◦C for 1 h. The fresh sample showed
two types of particles. The ﬁrst range from 25–50 ˚
A in size
and were very light in contrast. The second type were much
larger(150–250 ˚
A)andmuchdarkerincontrast.Aftertreat-
ment in air at 500◦C for 1 h and reduction for 1 h, both types
of particles underwent changes. The small particles expe-
rienced growth so that the average particle size became
50–100 ˚
A. The larger particles also experienced morpho-
logical changes so that the contrast of the particles was no
longer homogeneous. The particles consisted of surfaces
of light contrast with distinct patches of darker contrast.
The monometallic Pt catalyst exhibited smaller particles
(20–30 ˚
A),consistentwiththedispersionvaluesdetermined
by the chemisorption measurements.
Temperature-Programmed Reduction
Figure 2 shows the results of the TPR studies done on the
pure Pt (1.5) and Pt–Sn (CIC) catalysts after calcination at
350◦C. The TPR for the pure Pt catalyst shows that the H2
consumption has a maximum at about 125◦C and ends at
about 200◦C. This proﬁle also shows some H2 consumption
at about 400◦C. However, this is not due to the reduction of
Pt species, but rather to the removal of impregnation pre-
cursors which were not totally eliminated during the initial
calcination step. The proﬁle for the Pt–Sn (CIC) catalyst has
two H2 consumption peaks. The ﬁrst appears in the same
position as that for pure Pt (125◦C), while the second has
a maximum at 200◦C. Unlike the catalysts prepared by se-
quential impregnation, the Pt–Sn (CIC) shows no reduction
peak at high temperatures, characteristic of unalloyed Sn.
The proﬁles for the Pt–Sn (Si0.3) catalysts are shown in
Fig. 3. They contain peaks that are broader and extend to
much higher temperatures than those shown in Fig. 2. Cal-
cination of the sample at 400◦C resulted in three H2 con-
sumption regions. The ﬁrst peak again appears at the same
position as that for pure Pt (125◦C) and has the smallest
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
79
FIG. 1.
TEM micrographs of co-impregnated silica-supported Pt–Sn catalyst (1 wt% Pt, 1 wt% Sn) (a) fresh after reduction and (b) OX500 after
reduction.
intensity of the three peaks. The second consumption re-
gion is the largest and has a maximum near 250◦C. The
last region spans from approximately 400 to 600◦C with the
greatest intensity at about 525◦C. Figure 3 also shows the
consequences of increasing the calcination temperature on
FIG. 2.
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) proﬁles of silica-supported Pt (1.5) and Pt–Sn (CIC) catalysts after calcination at 350◦C.
the TPR proﬁle. When the calcination was done at 500◦C
for 2 h, the peak at 125◦C did not change much, but the peak
at 250◦C decreased in intensity while the higher tempera-
ture peak became dominant. Also, the position of the third
region shifted slightly so that the maximum occurred at
80
STAGG ET AL.
FIG. 3.
TPR proﬁles of silica-supported Pt–Sn (Si0.3) catalyst after calcination at various temperatures and times.
575◦C. When the calcination time increased to 4 h, the low-
temperature region showed a large increase in intensity.
The TPR proﬁles for the Pt–Sn (CI) catalyst after oxi-
dation at different temperatures are shown in Fig. 4. The
fresh Pt–Sn (CI) sample showed three hydrogen consump-
tion peaks centered at 146, 186, and 375◦C. The ﬁrst two
peaks appeared as a large broad region with the highest
intensity at 186◦C and a shoulder at lower temperatures.
The third peak was much smaller. Subsequent oxidation of
the reduced sample at 300, 400, and 500◦C resulted in the
removal of the high-temperature peak and, more relevant
FIG. 4.
TPR proﬁles of the Pt–Sn (CI) catalyst after various pretreatments: fresh, OX300, OX400, and OX500 (see Table 2 for details of each
pretreatment).
to the succeeding discussion, a signiﬁcant decrease in the
intensity of the peak at 186◦C. This decrease in intensity
was accompanied by the appearance of a shoulder between
200 and 300◦C that made the peak broader. Finally, the peak
that appeared at 146◦C on the fresh sample slightly changed
position as the oxidation temperature increased. A compa-
rable set of experiments was done for the pure Pt (1.5) cata-
lyst (not shown). These runs exhibited a single consump-
tion peak at about 125◦C which did not change much after
the various oxidation pretreatments. These runs conﬁrmed
that the peak at about 400◦C in the fresh monometallic
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
81
FIG. 5.
TPR proﬁles of the Pt–Sn (CI) catalyst after various pretreatments: fresh and REG500 (see Table 2 for details of each pretreatment).
catalyst was due to the removal of residues from the im-
pregnation precursors. They were eliminated during the re-
duction/oxidation cycles and the H2 consumption at 400◦C
did not appear for these samples.
Figure 5 shows the TPR results for the regenerated Pt–Sn
(CI) sample, REG500, in comparison to the fresh catalyst.
The result is similar to that observed for the series of oxi-
dized samples, although in this case the effects were more
pronounced. The low-temperature peak shifted to the posi-
FIG. 6.
Temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) proﬁles of carbonaceous deposits left on the monometallic Pt (1.5) and the bimetallic Pt–Sn
(CI) catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500◦C for 15 min.
tion that is typical of unalloyed Pt, 125◦C, while the conver-
sion of the 186◦C peak into a broad peak at about 240◦C was
more evident for this sample than for the oxidized samples.
Temperature-Programmed Oxidation
of Carbonaceous Deposits
TPO studies were performed on the catalysts after expo-
sure to isobutane for 15 min. Figure 6 shows that, in agree-
ment with previous studies (4), the addition of Sn decreased
82
STAGG ET AL.
FIG. 7.
TPO proﬁles of carbonaceous deposits left on the catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500◦C for 15 min at a constant isobutane ﬂow
rate of 54 cc/min (83 WHSV) and He ﬂow rates of 0, 25, and 50 cc/min. (a) Pt (1.5)/SiO2 catalyst; (b) Pt–Sn (CI)/SiO2 catalyst.
the intensity of the CO2 evolution in all three oxidation re-
gions. The position of the peaks are the same for the pure Pt
and bimetallic Pt–Sn samples; however, the amount of coke
formed on the bimetallic sample was approximately 50%
less than that on the monometallic Pt catalyst. The amount
of carbon formed on the Pt (1.5) catalyst after 15 min was
0.31 wt%, which corresponds to about four C atoms per Pt
atom.
Figures 7a and 7b show the results of diluting the isobu-
tane feed with He on the Pt (1.5) and Pt–Sn (CI) samples,
respectively. On the Pt catalyst, dilution with He had almost
no inﬂuence on the amount of coke measured after 15 min
of reaction. However, on the Pt–Sn (CI) dilution with He
resulted in the reduction of the largest TPO peak (375◦C)
by about 50% and almost complete elimination of the high-
temperature oxidation peak (510◦C). Dilution with He did
not affect the position of any of the three oxidation peaks
for either the Pt (1.5) or the Pt–Sn (CI) catalysts.
Changing the partial pressure of isobutane with the addi-
tion of H2 modiﬁed the coke formation for both the Pt (1.5)
and the Pt–Sn (CI) catalysts. Figures 8a and 8b show that
the intensity of all of the peaks decreased by about 50%
when the ratio of H2 to isobutane approached 1. Also, the
high-temperature peak showed a slight shift in temperature
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
83
FIG. 8.
TPO proﬁles of carbonaceous deposits left on the catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500◦C for 15 min at a constant isobutane ﬂow
rate of 54 cc/min (83 WHSV) and H2 ﬂow rates of 0, 25, and 50 cc/min. (a) Pt (1.5)/SiO2 catalyst; (b) Pt–Sn (CI)/SiO2 catalyst.
from a maximum of 500◦C with no H2 ﬂow to 525◦C at
a H2 ﬂow of 50 cc/min. The Pt–Sn (CI) catalyst showed
changes in both the intensity and the positions of the peaks
with the addition of H2. The largest peak shifted from ap-
proximately 375◦C with no H2 ﬂow to 325◦C with H2 ﬂow
of 50 cc/min. The high-temperature peak was not affected
with a H2 ﬂow of 20 cc/min but was completely removed at
the higher ﬂow rate of H2. Figure 9 compares the amount
of carbon deposited on each catalyst for the various con-
ditions described above. The trend lines clearly show the
effects of adding H2 and He to the feed stream along with
the reduction in coke formation with the addition of Sn. It is
observed that dilution with He does not affect the amount
of coke deposited on the monometallic catalyst. Deactiva-
tion of the Pt catalyst occurs so rapidly that saturation of
the surface by carbon deposits has occurred after only a
few minutes on stream. However, dilution with hydrogen
results in a marked decrease in the amount of carbon when
the H2 : hydrocarbon ratio approaches 1 : 1 due to hydro-
genation of coke precursors.
Figure 10 shows the TPO proﬁles for three Pt (1.5) sam-
ples after exposure to pure isobutane for 2 min. The ﬁrst is
84
STAGG ET AL.
FIG. 9.
Amount of carbon deposited on the Pt (1.5) and Pt–Sn (CI)/SiO2 catalysts, after 15-min exposure to isobutane at 500◦C and at a space
velocity of 83 WHSV, as a function of isobutane concentration in He (circles) and H2 (squares).
a fresh sample exposed to isobutane at 500◦C for 2 min. The
second is OX500 which has been exposed to isobutane for
2 min at 500◦C. The third is a fresh sample which has been
exposed to isobutane for 2 min at 500◦C, regenerated in air
at 500◦C for 1 h, reduced in H2 at 500◦C for 1 h, and then
exposed to isobutane a second time for 2 min (REG500).
Since the amount of coke is a strong function of the oleﬁn
concentration in the gas phase and, consequently, the level
of conversion, we have normalized the TPO signal to the
FIG. 10.
TPO proﬁles of fresh, OX500, and REG500 samples of pure Pt (1.5)/SiO2 catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500◦C (248 WHSV) for
2 min.
steady-state conversion obtained on each of the samples.
All comparisons will be made on this basis.
The TPO proﬁle for the fresh sample of the monometal-
lic Pt (1.5) catalyst after 2 min of reaction is similar to the
one obtained after 15 min of reaction. Oxidation at 500◦C
before exposure to reaction caused the position of the CO2
peaks to shift to higher temperatures. The appearance of a
high-temperature oxidation peak was seen on the oxidized
catalyst, but this peak was not present on the regenerated
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
85
sample. This high-temperature peak started at approxi-
mately 550◦C and spanned up to 800◦C. The two peaks
at lower temperatures shifted from approximately 275 and
400◦C to 350 and 425◦C, respectively. The amount of coke
formed on the oxidized catalyst was slightly less than that of
the fresh sample. Regeneration of the catalyst resulted in a
45% decrease in the coke formed during the second expo-
sure to isobutane. The positions of all three oxidation peaks
were identical to that of the fresh sample; however, the in-
tensity of each of the peaks, especially the one at 400◦C,
was signiﬁcantly reduced.
As we explain below, we ascribe the reduced rate of
coke formation observed on the regenerated catalysts to
the presence of coke deposits that were not removed by
the regeneration process. These remaining deposits mod-
ify the Pt surface making it more resistant to coking. To
prove this, we conducted TPO measurements on a regen-
erated catalyst without further exposure to the isobutane
feed. Indeed, this experiment showed that about 25% of
the carbon initially deposited still remained on the catalyst
after the regeneration step.
Contrary to the monometallic catalyst, the bimetallic
Pt–Sn (CI) showed an increase in the rate of coke forma-
tion after the regeneration and oxidation pretreatments.
As shown in Fig. 11, the fresh sample formed a very low
amount of coke during exposure to isobutane for 2 min.
Only one broad oxidation peak was observed at approxi-
mately 375◦C. The OX500 catalyst formed a much larger
amount of coke and the subsequent TPO proﬁle looked
very similar to that of the oxidized monometallic Pt (1.5)
sample. The main peak shifted to temperatures near 410◦C
and a new high-temperature peak appeared near 650◦C.
FIG. 11.
TPO proﬁles of fresh, OX500, and REG500 sample of Pt–Sn (CI)/SiO2 catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500◦C (248 WHSV) for
2 min.
Like the oxidized Pt–Sn catalyst, the regenerated sample
(REG500) resulted in a much higher rate of coke forma-
tion that the fresh bimetallic catalyst and the TPO of this
sample exhibited a single broad peak centered at around
410◦C.
In summary, the reduction/oxidation (500◦C) cycle on
the monometallic Pt catalyst did not have a great effect
on the amount of coke formed during the following reac-
tion period but signiﬁcantly altered its oxidation character-
istics, i.e., the coke became more refractory. The regener-
ation of the Pt catalyst did not completely eliminate the
coke deposits, but these deposits hindered further forma-
tion of coke. A very different behavior was exhibited by the
bimetallic catalysts. Both the oxidation and the regenera-
tion procedures caused a large increase in the amount of
coke that was formed during the subsequent 2-min cycles
under reaction conditions.
Isobutane Dehydrogenation Activity
Isobutane dehydrogenation reaction studies were per-
formed on the monometallic Pt and bimetallic Pt–Sn (CI),
Pt–Sn (CIC), and Pt–Sn (SI) catalysts. Figures 12a and 12b
compare the dehydrogenation activity and selectivity of the
Pt (1.5), Pt–Sn (CI), Pt–Sn (CIC), and Pt–Sn (SI1) catalysts
in a ﬂow of isobutane : He, 2 : 1, at a space velocity of 248
WHSV. Although all bimetallic catalysts showed greater
activity and selectivity than the unpromoted catalyst, the
co-impregnated catalysts exhibited a signiﬁcantly better
performance than the sequentially impregnated catalyst.
This superior performance was evident in the activity, se-
lectivity, and stability. The selectivity of the co-impregnated
86
STAGG ET AL.
FIG. 12.
Isobutane dehydrogenation as a function of time on stream over Pt (1.5), Pt–Sn (SI), Pt–Sn (CI), and Pt–Sn (CIC) catalysts in a ﬂow of
isobutane : He (2 : 1 ratio) at 500◦C (248 WHSV). (a) conversion (%); (b) selectivity to isobutene (%).
bimetallics remained near 96% throughout the duration of
the experiment, while the Pt (1.5) catalyst selectivity started
at 80% and increased to reach a maximum of 84% after
100 min on stream. The sequentially impregnated catalyst
presented a selectivity higher than the monometallic, but
substantially lower than the co-impregnated catalysts.
The most dramatic differences displayed among the
bimetallic catalysts prepared by the different procedures
was observed when the samples were tested under pure
isobutane at 500◦C and a space velocity of 300 WHSV. Un-
der these conditions the deactivation of the monometallic
catalysts was very fast and the conversion after a few min-
utes was below the detectable limit. By contrast, no deac-
tivation was observed on the Pt–Sn (CIC) catalyst which,
under these conditions, maintained a 10% conversion for
several hours and 100% selectivity to isobutylene. As il-
lustrated in Fig. 13, the other co-impregnated CI catalyst
exhibited similarly high conversion and selectivity. How-
ever, the rate of deactivation was signiﬁcantly higher than
that observed on the CIC sample. Finally, the sequen-
tially impregnated catalyst exhibited a much poorer per-
formance, with a conversion about one order of magnitude
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
87
FIG. 13.
Logarithmic comparison of the variation of isobutane conversion as a function of time for the Pt–Sn (CI), Pt–Sn (CIC) and Pt–Sn (Si1)
in a ﬂow of isobutane at 500◦C (300 WHSV).
lower and, even at these low conversions, a high rate of
deactivation.
Figure 14 shows the results of an experiment performed
to analyze the effects of the presence of H2 on the activity
and selectivity of the bimetallic Pt–Sn (CIC) catalyst. In the
ﬁrst run, we exposed the sample to a ﬂow of 10 cc/min isobu-
tane and 110 cc/min He at a space velocity of 245 WHSV.
FIG. 14.
Effect of hydrogen addition on the time evolution of the isobutane dehydrogenation activity of a fresh Pt–Sn (CIC) sample at 500◦C.
Circles, run in an isobutane : He mixture at a 10 : 110 ﬂow ratio and a space velocity of 245 WHSV. Diamonds run in isobutane : He : H2 at ﬂow of
10 : 100 : 10 (245 WHSV) for 90 min and then returned to the conditions of the ﬁrst run, that is, ﬂow of isobutane : He at 10 : 110 (245 WHSV).
Under these conditions, the catalyst exhibited a high ini-
tial activity but deactivated rapidly. A subsequent run was
performed in the presence of H2 keeping the same space
velocity. In this run we used a ﬂow of 10 cc/min isobutane,
100 cc/min He, and 10 cc/min H2. In this case, the initial ac-
tivity was much lower than that in the absence of H2 but the
deactivation was much less severe. After 90 min on stream,
88
STAGG ET AL.
the ﬂow was switched to the conditions of the ﬁrst run, and
the conversion increased to values even greater than that
on the catalyst that was not exposed to H2. Similar exper-
iments were also performed on the pure Pt (1.0) catalyst;
however, in this case, the initial activity in the presence of
H2 was higher than that for the runs diluted only with He.
To study the effect of regeneration on the monometallic
and bimetallic catalysts, the spent Pt (1.5) catalyst after a
reaction period of 100 min at 500◦C (2 : 1 isobutane : He,
248 WHSV) was regenerated by carbon burning in air for
1 h at 300 and 500◦C with subsequent reduction for 1 h
in H2 at 500◦C. Figure 15a shows that, in the case of the
FIG. 15.
Isobutane dehydrogenation as a function of time on stream over fresh, REG300, REG500, OX300, and OX500 samples of pure Pt (1.5)
in a ﬂow of isobutane : He (2 : 1 ratio) at 500◦C (248 WHSV). (a) conversion (%); (b) selectivity to isobutene (%).
monometallic Pt (1.5) catalyst, the regeneration at 300 and
500◦C resulted in a catalytic behavior similar to that of the
fresh Pt (1.5) catalyst. Figure 15a also shows the activity
data for the pure Pt sample after reduction followed by
oxidation at 300 and 500◦C (OX300 and OX500) and sub-
sequent reduction at 500◦C. On these samples, the level of
activity after 2 min was about the same as that of the fresh
or regenerated samples, but, as opposed to the regenerated
catalysts, these samples exhibited a dramatic increase in the
rate of deactivation. After 90 min on stream, the catalysts
had lost approximately 50% of their respective activities at
2 min.
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
89
FIG. 16.
Isobutane dehydrogenation activity for fresh, REG300, REG400, and REG500 samples of Pt–Sn (CI) in a ﬂow of 2 : 1 isobutane : He
at 500◦C (248 WHSV).
The corresponding selectivity data for the same series
of samples are shown in Fig. 15b. The fresh Pt sample had
the lowest selectivity to isobutene when compared to the
regenerated and oxidized catalysts. The regenerated cata-
lysts had selectivities at 2 min near that of the fresh Pt, but
then increased with time on stream to approximately 85%.
Oxidation at 300 and 500◦C resulted in an initial decrease
in the selectivity, but after 10 min on stream the selectivity
already reached 85% and continued to increase to values
near 90%.
FIG. 17.
Isobutane dehydrogenation activity for fresh, OX300, OX400, and Pt–Sn (CI) in a ﬂow of 2 : 1 isobutane : He at 500◦C (248 WHSV).
Figure 16 shows the effects of regeneration on the
bimetallic Pt–Sn (CI) catalyst. The catalyst regenerated at
300◦Cregainedalmostalloftheactivityofthefreshcatalyst.
On the other hand, regeneration at 500◦C resulted in a large
loss of activity. The selectivity of the Pt–Sn (CI) catalyst
showed only a slight decrease with regeneration. Figure 17
depicts the effects of the reduction/oxidation cycles on the
Pt–Sn (CI) catalysts. The activity observed on the OX300
and OX500 samples was lower than the activity of the
catalyst regenerated under the same conditions. Also, the
90
STAGG ET AL.
selectivities of all of the oxidized samples were lower than
those of the regenerated samples at the equivalent temper-
atures. The catalytic behavior of the Pt–Sn (CIC) sample
(not shown) did not differ much from that of the Pt–Sn
(CI) sample described above. The main difference was a
more pronounced drop in activity and selectivity after the
regeneration treatment at 500◦C.
In summary, although the bimetallic catalysts exhib-
ited higher activity and selectivity than the monometal-
lic ones, these differences became less pronounced after
reduction/oxidation treatments at high temperatures. The
high-temperature oxidation treatment had adverse effects
on both monometallic and bimetallic catalysts, while the
high-temperature regeneration only affected the catalytic
behavior of the bimetallic samples.
DISCUSSION
The results presented in this contribution show the im-
portance of the type of impregnation procedure used in
the preparation of Pt–Sn/SiO2 catalysts and demonstrate
that the regeneration process may result in deterioration
of the catalytic performance due to a decreased interaction
between the active metal and the promoter.
Effect of the Impregnation Method Employed
The composition of the bimetallic clusters in Pt–Sn cata-
lysts has been a matter of study for several years (26). The
presence of bimetallic alloys has often been reported. For
example, from their EXAFS and X-ray diffraction data,
Meitzner et al. (6) have proposed that PtSn and Pt3Sn al-
loys are present in reduced Pt–Sn catalysts. Similarly, Li
et al. (27) used Mossbauer studies to show that PtSn is the
most prevalent alloy formed on the bimetallic catalyst. Cho-
jnacki and Schmidt (19) used TEM and electron diffraction
to show that Pt and Sn supported on planar amorphous
silica ﬁlms consisted of several intermetallic species includ-
ing PtSn, Pt3Sn, and PtSn4. Reduction of the ﬁlms for 18 h
at 650◦C in H2 resulted in particles with the major phase
being PtSn but with a surface layer of PtSn4. No FCC Pt
was found on these ﬁlms, possibly due to the long reduc-
tion times and high reduction temperatures. Although the
oxidation state of Sn has been a matter of discussion, it is
now widely accepted that the fraction of tin alloyed with Pt
is metallic Sn0 (28) and this fraction is much larger on SiO2
than on Al2O3 (27, 29). Therefore, we could expect than on
our SiO2 support, depending on the initial distribution of
the precursors on the surface, a relatively large amount of
Sn should be alloyed with Pt.
In fact, the different TPR results obtained for the var-
ious preparations can be explained in terms of the pres-
ence of Pt–Sn alloys of different compositions (19, 30).
The position of the reduction peaks can be expected to
shift to higher temperatures as the concentration of Sn,
more difﬁcult to reduce than Pt, increases. For example,
the Pt–Sn (CIC) sample showed two distinct hydrogen con-
sumption peaks. The low-temperature reduction peak at
around 125◦C is characteristic of unalloyed Pt and was
also seen on the monometallic Pt catalyst. The dominant
peak at about 200◦C can be ascribed to a Pt–Sn alloy with
a higher concentration of Sn than those observed on the
Pt–Sn (CI) sample, which had H2 consumption peaks ap-
pearing at lower temperatures. In both cases, however,
peaks indicative of unalloyed Sn, which should appear at
much higher temperatures, were not observed. By contrast,
the sequentially impregnated catalyst, Pt–Sn (SI), exhib-
ited high-temperature consumption peaks. In this case, the
Pt species are much less effective in catalyzing the reduc-
tion of Sn, indicating that a large fraction of Sn is physically
separated from Pt. These results demonstrate that, among
the preparation methods studied here, the co-impregnation
methods are clearly superior to the sequential impregna-
tion method. Preparations based on sequential impregna-
tion methods may result in low extents of Pt–Sn interac-
tion. For example, in agreement with our data, Barias et al.
(15) have reported TPR proﬁles of Pt–Sn catalysts prepared
by sequential impregnation that show large H2 consump-
tions at high temperatures, indicating a large fraction of
unalloyed Sn. If, as discussed below, the catalytic perfor-
mance is a strong function of the extent of metal–metal
interaction, the sequential impregnation method is not
recommended.
The hydrogen and CO chemisorption data also support
the conclusion that on the CIC sample there is a larger
extent of Pt–Sn interaction than on the CI sample. Even
though both bimetallic catalysts showed a decrease in the
ability to adsorb hydrogen and CO when compared to the
monometallic sample, the Pt–Sn (CIC) sample has a much
lower adsorption capacity, corresponding to a higher de-
gree of Pt–Sn interaction. A similar drop in chemisorption
capacity has been observed by Cortright and Dumesic (31),
who found that increasing the Sn loading resulted in a de-
crease in the fraction of exposed sites and a weakening of
the hydrogen adsorption strength.
Effect of the Pt–Sn Interaction on
Dehydrogenation Activity
The extent of metal–metal interaction resulting from the
different preparations greatly affects the catalytic perfor-
mance. One of the most obvious effects that we observed
when adding Sn was an improvement in selectivity and sta-
bility compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst, even in the
absence of H2 in the feed.
These increases in stability and selectivity have been gen-
erally explained (4, 5) in terms of dilution of Pt ensembles
by Sn, which greatly reduces the activity toward reactions
that require a large ensemble of Pt atoms to constitute the
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
91
active sites, such as hydrogenolysis and coking. Also, the
increase in selectivity of the pure Pt sample with time on
stream can be explained by the same geometric arguments.
The carbon deposits play the role of the inactive species
that inhibit further undesired reactions. This explanation
accounts for two observations on the pure Pt catalyst. Both
the selectivity and the stability of the catalyst improve as a
function of time on stream as the number of large ensem-
bles in reduced by the presence of carbon.
On the pure Pt catalyst the initial deactivation is very fast.
Thus, it is difﬁcult to measure the “true” initial activity and
determine whether the initial dehydrogenation rate on Pt
is higher or lower than on the bimetallic catalyst. Some au-
thors have reported that pure Pt is initially more active but
after a short time it deactivates while the bimetallic retains
its activity (32). Other authors have reported lower activ-
ities for the monometallic catalyst. It is conceivable that,
in the catalysts prepared by sequential impregnation, the
fraction of unalloyed Pt that rapidly deactivates is large
enough to show a much lower initial rate than those pre-
pared by co-impregnation. For the latter, the fraction of un-
alloyed Pt would be less and, as a consequence, they would
present a lower extent of rapid deactivation.
The TEM micrographs in Figs. 1a and 1b show that
the bimetallic catalyst contains large (250 ˚
A) particles. As
stated before, we believe that these particles are a combi-
nation of several Pt–Sn alloys. Even though the bimetallic
catalysts, which have a high degree of interaction, are com-
posed of these large particles, they still exhibited higher
initial activity than the pure Pt catalyst which had much
smaller particles (see Fig. 12). It is then clear that the cata-
lytic activity that will result after the ﬁrst few minutes on
stream is not determined by the fraction of Pt exposed, i.e.,
the metal particle size, but rather by the degree of inter-
action between the metal and the promoter. The catalysts
which have less interaction have a higher fraction of un-
alloyed Pt. As shown in Fig. 13, the Pt–Sn (SI) catalyst,
which had the lowest extent of Pt–Sn interaction, exhibited
a very high rate of deactivation, much greater than that of
the Pt–Sn (CI) or (CIC) catalysts.
The notion that rapid deactivation is responsible for the
apparent increase in initial activity with the addition of Sn
is supported by the results of activity studies performed in
the presence of hydrogen. Figure 14 clearly shows that the
presence of hydrogen decreases the initial activity of the
bimetallic catalyst. However, even though the initial activ-
ity of the catalyst decreases, the stability of the catalyst is
increased because the presence of hydrogen increases the
resilience to coke formation by cleaning the Pt surface (see
Fig. 9). On the other hand, the results for the pure Pt cata-
lyst show that the addition of H2 resulted in increases in
both initial activity and stability. On this catalyst, the coke
removal capacity of hydrogen overcomes the decrease in
activity by adsorption site competition. As a result, the re-
duction in deactivation rate manifests itself as an apparent
increase in initial activity.
Although the geometric modiﬁcation of the Pt ensembles
by addition of Sn may explain most of the observed changes
in catalytic properties, there are some indications that more
subtle ligand effects may also be present. For example, the
shape of the white line in the Pt LIII XANES spectra, rep-
resenting allowed transitions from occupied 2p orbitals to
unoccupied 5d orbitals is signiﬁcantly altered by addition
of Sn. This modiﬁcation has been explained in terms of a
transfer of electrons from Sn to Pt which would reduce the
number of unﬁlled d states in Pt and could have an effect
on the intrinsic catalytic properties. More recently, on the
basis of a comparison of several intermetallic compounds
(Pt3M, where M = Ti, Co, or Sn), Ross (33) postulated that
the intermetallic interaction is predominantly through sp
orbitals rather than through d orbitals. In the case of Pt3Sn
alloys, the Pt–Sn bonding would involve the occupied Sn5p
and the unoccupied Pt6p. The resulting donation of p elec-
trons from Sn to Pt would only have an indirect effect on
the d states of Pt, which would shift to lower energies and
become narrower.
Even though the Pt–Sn interaction is relatively subtle, it
can result in a decrease in the heat of CO adsorption as
large as 20 kJ/mol (34). This energy difference would cause
dramatic changes in the adsorption equilibrium constants at
298 K and, consequently, in the observed adsorption capac-
ity. For example, a simple calculation can be done assuming
that, at room temperature and under the dynamic adsorp-
tion conditions, the CO surface coverage should be signif-
icantly less than 1. Accordingly, a lowering of 20 kJ/mol in
heat of adsorption represents a drop in coverage by a factor
of 3.2 × 103.
If we analyze the CO adsorption data in Table 3, we can
see that although the spent catalysts were still active after
1 h on stream, their CO adsorption capacity approached
zero. As discussed above, the unalloyed Pt should be rapidly
covered by coke while the Pt–Sn alloys remain more or
less free of coke. We can conclude that the alloyed Pt does
not adsorb signiﬁcant amounts of CO and, therefore, the
CO/Pt measured on the fresh catalyst is mainly due to the
fraction of unalloyed Pt. The situation may be similar for
the H2 chemisorption. In fact, Verbeek and Sachtler (7)
have shown that Pt–Sn alloys adsorb very little hydrogen
and have ascribed this decrease to a lowering of the heat
of adsorption. Recent microcalorimetry studies (5, 28, 29)
showed that, even though the addition of Sn resulted in a
large decrease in the saturation H or CO adsorption cov-
erages, the heats of adsorption at zero coverage on Pt : Sn
(1 : 1) samples were similar to those on pure Pt. However,
it must be noted that these SiO2-supported samples were
prepared by sequential impregnation and, as shown above,
this technique leads to a large fraction of unalloyed Pt. The
adsorption that is measured under the conditions of those
92
STAGG ET AL.
studies occurs primarily on the Pt sites which are not form-
ing an alloy with Sn. For changes in the initial heats of ad-
sorption to be seen, a large fraction of Pt would need to be
alloyed with Sn. When higher Sn concentrations were used
in those studies, the heats of adsorption at zero coverage
decreased signiﬁcantly, as expected.
This conclusion has important consequences on the
meaning of turnover frequencies on Pt–Sn catalysts. For
example, if we compare the TOF based on both CO and hy-
drogen chemisorption for the pure Pt and bimetallic Pt–Sn
catalysts we observe that these values signiﬁcantly increase
in the order Pt < Pt–Sn (CI) < Pt–Sn (CIC). Being dehy-
drogenation a structure-insensitive reaction, geometric ar-
guments alone would predict that the TOF should be about
the same on the three catalysts. As explained above, it is
difﬁcult to determine the “true” initial activity because,
even after only a couple of minutes under reaction con-
ditions the catalyst is already partially deactivated. Using
a H2 : hydrocarbon ratio of 6 : 1, Cortright and Dumesic (5)
have found TOF values for a 1 : 1 Pt : Sn catalyst that are
very similar to that of the pure Pt catalyst. However, at
those high H2 : hydrocarbon ratios, the initial deactivation
should be much less severe than in our case.
If, as proposed above, the initial deactivation increases
with the amount of unalloyed Pt, we might expect that de-
activationshouldfollowtheoppositeordertothatoftheob-
served TOF, i.e., Pt > Pt–Sn (CI) > Pt–Sn (CIC), even when
the true initial TOF was the same on the three samples. The
unalloyed Pt in the sample, due to rapid deactivation, is not
the species responsible for sustained activity. However, CO
and H2 chemisorption primarily occurs on the unalloyed Pt.
Therefore, for bimetallic Pt–Sn catalysts, TOF values based
on CO or H2 chemisorption have no practical signiﬁcance.
Effect of Regeneration Procedures
As mentioned above, lower alkane dehydrogenation
catalysts require frequent regenerations in air at high tem-
peratures. These treatments can be detrimental to the dis-
persion of the metal and the interaction between the metal
andpromoter(35).Inthiswork,wehaveinvestigatedtheef-
fects of such treatments on the performance of Pt–Sn/SiO2
catalysts.
As shown in the TPRs of Fig. 3, when the SI sample was
treated in air at 500◦C for increasing periods of time, the
H2 consumption peak associated with Pt–Sn alloy signiﬁ-
cantly decreased while those ascribed to unalloyed Pt and
unalloyed Sn increased. This segregation was also observed
in the co-impregnated catalysts which started with a much
higher extent of Pt–Sn interaction. As shown in Fig. 4, the
TPR peak at intermediate temperatures decreased with in-
creasing oxidation temperature while the consumption at
lower (Pt-rich) and higher (Sn-rich) temperatures gradu-
ally increased. Finally, a similar segregation phenomenon
was observed when the coked catalyst was regenerated at
500◦C in air. In this case, the splitting of the peaks was even
more pronounced (see Fig. 5). It is interesting to consider
the important differences observed in the TPR proﬁles of
the samples of the OX (and REG) series with those that
we call “fresh.” One can note that, even though the fresh
samples were oxidized at 400◦C and then reduced at 500◦C,
they were clearly different from those of the OX and REG
series which had an extra oxidation and reduction cycle.
TEM can also be used to support the segregation theory.
Previous TEM studies on Pt–Sn (19) have found that ox-
idation at 550◦C for 1 h resulted in severe morphological
changes in the intermetallic particles. The Sn in the alloys
formed on oxide and migrated to the surface of the particle.
SnO2 formed a ring around the edge of the particle in con-
tact with the SiO2 support. The Pt did not form an oxide but
went to FCC Pt at the core of the particle. Subsequent 18-h
reduction (650◦C) resulted in complete recombination of
the alloys. In our case, the TEM of OX500 after reduction
for 1 h shows heterogeneous particles that are not present
in the TEM of the fresh sample. We postulate that some re-
combination of the alloy may have occurred but that short
reduction times after oxidation are not sufﬁcient for total
recombination of the alloy, leaving a particle with segre-
gated Pt and Sn regions.
It is important to determine whether the proposed dis-
ruption of the alloys and metal segregation phenomena
have an important effect on the catalytic properties. In
fact, as demonstrated in this work, the effects may certainly
be dramatic. Figure 11 shows that the reduction/oxidation
treatment resulted in a large increase in the amount of coke
deposited on the Pt–Sn (CI) sample. At the same time, the
alloy disruption caused by the oxidation treatment resulted
in an important drop in conversion as illustrated in Fig. 17
for the co-impregnated Pt–Sn (CI) sample.
The oxidation and regeneration treatments also altered
the monometallic Pt catalyst, but the effects were differ-
ent from those on the Pt–Sn samples. For example, the
amount of coke deposited during 2 min in isobutane on
the oxidized Pt catalysts was about the same as that de-
posited on the fresh catalyst. However, the TPO shows that
on the former, the carbon deposits are more refractory. This
change could be due to an increase in the Pt particle size,
which are typically observed when Pt is heated in oxygen at
high temperatures (36). However, as shown in Table 3 the
change in chemisorption capacity was not very pronounced.
It is possible that even though the overall metallic area did
not change much upon the reduction/oxidation cycle, the
type of exposed crystallographic planes changed, causing a
change in the coking process. Studies on model Pt catalysts
(37) have shown that graphitic carbon deposition occurs
much more readily on ﬂat terraces than on edges and cor-
ners. Therefore, if the reduction/oxidation cycle results in
an increase in the density of ﬂat planes, we might expect an
increase in deposition of graphitic carbon.
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON Pt–Sn/SiO2 CATALYSTS
93
As opposed to the reduced/oxidized samples, the regen-
erated monometallic Pt catalysts showed less coke than the
corresponding fresh samples. This result can again be ex-
plained in terms of the presence of refractory carbon de-
posits left on the surface after the regeneration which can
act as diluting species breaking up Pt ensembles and reduc-
ing the rate of coke formation.
The observed trend in coke formation on the monometal-
lic catalysts was paralleled by that of the rates of deactiva-
tion. The oxidized monometallic samples, which exhibited
a high rate of coke formation, showed a much higher rate of
deactivation than the fresh and regenerated catalysts and
a more pronounced variation in selectivity. Also, the initial
selectivity was lower for the OX500 sample than for the
other two samples, which is consistent with the presence of
ﬂat Pt planes, more active for hydrogenolysis and coke for-
mation. This sample rapidly formed coke so it deactivated
and increased selectivity more rapidly than the other two
samples.
The activity studies showed that both the oxidation and
the regeneration of the bimetallic Pt–Sn catalysts at 500◦C
resulted in a great loss of activity and selectivity. The de-
crease in activity can be due to segregation or partial de-
struction of the Pt–Sn alloy which results in an increase in
the deactivation due to coking. Comparison of the TPO
proﬁles for the fresh and OX500 Pt–Sn (CI) with that for
the fresh and OX500 Pt samples show that after oxidation
at 500◦C a high-temperature carbon peak forms as in the
case of OX500 Pt. This could indicate that some of the al-
loy has been destroyed leaving behind patches of unalloyed
Pt, on which the formation of the graphitic carbon is more
favorable. The OX500 and REG500 bimetallic Pt–Sn (CI)
samples still form less carbon than the pure Pt sample, but
almost four times the amount found on the fresh bimetal-
lic sample. Comparison of Figs. 16 and 17 shows that the
REG500 bimetallic sample Pt–Sn (CI) retained more of
its initial activity than the OX500 sample. This difference
can be explained by the same argument used above for the
monometallic catalyst, the carbon not removed during the
regeneration hinders the coke formation on the unalloyed
Pt regions.
To explain the changes in catalytic activities and proper-
ties experienced by the Pt–Sn (CI) and Pt–Sn (CIC) cata-
lysts after reduction/oxidation cycles and regeneration at
500◦C we may not need to postulate the complete segrega-
tion of the metals in separate particles. Based on the surface
enrichment model observed on the Pt–Sn and the Pt–Rh al-
loys and the TEM evidence of Chojnacki and Schmidt (19),
we can speculate that, after reduction and before the treat-
ment in air, the particle is composed of a Pt–Sn alloy. Un-
der oxidizing conditions at high temperatures, the Sn forms
an oxide and, at the expense of the subsurface layer, the
exterior becomes rich in Sn. The Pt, which does not form
an oxide, is metallic and becomes the core of the particle.
Reduction at high temperatures results in the destruction
of the oxide and possibly redistribution of the Sn, opening
patches of pure Pt. Although the thermodynamically most
stable conﬁguration would be the complete recombination
of the alloy (7, 19), short reduction times do not allow for
this to occur. Consequently, after reduction, the bimetallic
particles have become heterogeneous, with Sn-rich regions
interdispersed with Pt-rich regions. It is even possible that
pure Pt ensembles are present allowing for the formation
of more refractory carbon to form on the surface under
subsequent exposure to reaction conditions. The dramatic
consequences of the reduction/oxidation treatments on the
catalytic properties of silica-supported Pt–Sn catalysts
demonstrated in this work should be taken into account
when the regenerability of a dehydrogenation catalyst is
considered for practical applications.
CONCLUSIONS
In this contribution we have shown that the addition of Sn
can signiﬁcantly improve the catalytic behavior of Pt/SiO2
catalysts for the dehydrogenation of isobutane conducted
under severely deactivating conditions, i.e., at 500◦C and
without the addition of hydrogen. The main conclusions of
this study are the following:
• The promoting effect of Sn strongly depends on the
method employed in the preparation. Catalysts prepared by
co-impregnation, particularly when the solvent is an aque-
ous solution containing HCl, result in a high extent of Pt–Sn
interaction. By contrast, sequential impregnation results in
a large fraction of unalloyed Pt. When H2 is not added to
the feed, this fraction of unalloyed Pt rapidly deactivates.
• In choosing a preparation method, one needs to max-
imize the degree of Pt–Sn interaction rather than maxi-
mizing the metal dispersion because it is the fraction of
alloyed Pt the one that will be responsible for the sustained
activity.
• High-temperature treatments in air of previously re-
duced Pt–Sn samples are detrimental for the catalytic prop-
erties. After these treatments, the rate of deactivation due
to coke formation greatly increases. It is postulated that a
Pt–Sn segregation resulting in disruption of the alloy struc-
ture is responsible for this effect. Reduction after oxidation
results in some recombination of the alloy, but long times
and high temperatures are necessary for complete recom-
bination.
• CO and hydrogen adsorption does not take place to
a great extent on the Pt–Sn alloys, the small amount mea-
sured occurs mostly on unalloyed Pt. Since, in the absence
of added H2, this fraction of the catalyst is rapidly deacti-
vated, TOF values based on H/Pt or CO/Pt values have no
practical signiﬁcance.
94
STAGG ET AL.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We gratefully acknowledge the Donors of the Petroleum Research
Fund administered by the American Chemical Society and the NSF-
CONICET International Program (INT-9415590) for their generous sup-
port. We thank NSF for a traineeship (SMS). We thank Micromeritics for
the donation of a ASAP2000 adsorption apparatus. We thank the Uni-
versity of Mar del Plata for a fellowship for one of us (WEA), as part of
the international exchange program sponsored by the University of Ok-
lahoma and the University of Mar del Plata. We also thank the Japanese
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for their support of INCAPE,
Argentina.
REFERENCES
1. Resasco, D. E., and Haller, G. L., in “Catalysis,” Vol. 11, p. 379. Royal
Chem. Soc., London, 1994.
2. Yarusov, I. B., Zatolokina, E. V., Shitova, N. V., Belyi, A. S., and
Ostrovskii, N. M., Catal. Today 13, 655 (1992).
3. Yang, W., Lin, L., Fan, Y., and Zang, J., Catal. Lett. 12, 267 (1992).
4. Dautzenberg, F. M., Helle, J. N., Biloen, P., and Sachtler, W. M. H.,
J. Catal. 63, 119 (1980).
5. Cortright, R. D., and Dumesic, J. A., J. Catal. 148, 771 (1994).
6. Meitzner, G., Via, G. H., Lytle, F. W., Fung, S. C., and Sinfelt, J. H.,
J. Phys. Chem. 92, 2925 (1988).
7. Verbeek, H., and Sachtler, W. M. H., J. Catal. 42, 257 (1976).
8. Paffett, M. T., Gebhard, S., Windham, R. G., and Koel, B. E., Surf. Sci.
223, 449 (1989).
9. Xu, C., Koel, B. E., and Paffett, M. T., Langmuir 10, 166 (1994).
10. Antos, G. J., U.S. Patent 4,216,346, 1980.
11. Olbrich, M. E., McKay, D. L., and Montgomery, D. P., U.S. Patent
4,926,005, 1986.
12. Catalytica Studies Division, in “Catalytic Dehydrogenation and
Oxidative Dehydrogenation.” Catalysis Studies No. 4190 DH, 1991.
13. Chojnacki, T. P., and Schmidt, L. D., J. Catal. 115, 473 (1989).
14. Wang, T., and Schmidt, L. D., J. Catal. 70, 187 (1981).
15. Barias, O. A., Holmen, A., and Blekkan, E., Catal. Today 24, 361
(1995).
16. Chen, M., and Schmidt, L. D., J. Catal. 56, 198 (1979).
17. Foger, K., and Jaeger, H., J. Catal. 70, 53 (1981).
18. Sinfelt, J. H., and Via, G. H., J. Catal. 56, 1 (1979).
19. Chojnacki, T. P., and Schmidt, L. D., J. Catal. 129, 473 (1991).
20. Nu˜
nez, G. M., and Rouco, A. J., J. Catal. 111, 41 (1988).
21. Resasco, D. E., Marcus, B. K., Huang, C. S., and Durante, V. A.,
J. Catal. 146, 40 (1994).
22. De Miguel, S. R., Baronetti, G. T., Castro, A. A., and Scelza, O. A.,
Appl. Catal. 45, 61 (1988).
23. Fung, S., and Querini, C. A., J. Catal. 138, 240 (1992).
24. Balakrishnan, K., and Schwank, J., J. Catal. 127, 287 (1991).
25. Afonso, J. C., Aranda, D. A. G., Schmal, D., and Frety, R., Fuel Proc.
Technol. 42, 3 (1995).
26. Srinivasan, R., and Davis, B. H., Platinum Metals Rev. 36, 151
(1992).
27. Li, Y. X., Klabunde, K. J., and Davis, B. H., J. Catal. 128, 1 (1991).
28. Lieske, H., and Volter, J., J. Catal. 90, 46 (1984).
29. Zhou, Y., and Davis, S. M., Catal. Lett. 15, 51 (1992).
30. Chang, T.-H., and Leu, F. C., J. Chin. Inst. Chem. Eng. 26, 393
(1995).
31. Cortright, R. D., and Dumesic, J. A., Appl. Catal. A 12, 101 (1995).
32. Cortright, R. D., and Dumesic, J. A., J. Catal. 157, 576 (1995).
33. Ross, P. N., J. Vacuum. Sci. Technol. 10, 2546 (1992).
34. Haner, A. H., Ross, P. N., Bardi, U., and Atrei, A., J. Vacuum Sci.
Technol. 10, 2719 (1992).
35. Fan, Y., Xu, Z., Zang, J., and Lin, L., in “Catalyst Deactiva-
tion 1991.” Elsevier, Amsterdam; Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 68, 683
(1991).
36. Chen, M., and Schmidt, L. D., J. Catal. 55, 348 (1978).
37. Somorjai, G. A., and Blakely, D. W., Nature 258, 580 (1975).
