I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


The Asian Threat in Europe: Topical Connections between the Serial Novels Anna Karenina and Effi Briest Lee Roberts The Comparatist, Volume 35, May 2011, pp. 85-106 (Article) Published by The University of North Carolina Press
DOI:
For additional information about this article Access provided at 8 Jan 2020 23:08 GMT from The University Of Texas at  Austin, General Libraries https://doi.org/10.1353/com.2011.0017 https://muse.jhu.edu/article/441243 85
Lee Roberts The Asian Threat in Europe Topical Connections between the Serial Novels Anna Karenina and Effi Briest Scholars have drawn parallels between Leo Tolstoys Anna Karenina (187577) and Theodor Fontanes Effi Briest (189495) that cover such aspects as the circum- stances under which two unhappy marriages formed (Stern), the manner in which the civil service drives the plots of both novels (Zimmermann), and the signifi- cance of children in novels of adultery (Overton). Such comparisons have provided insights into thematic similarities, but they have tended to focus on the two works published as single volumes rather than on their original form as serial novels in the journals Russkij Vstnik (The Russian Herald) and the Deutsche Rundschau.
Consequently, it has been difficult to discern another striking commonality: Anna Karenina was published during the build- up to the Russo- Turkish War (187778) and Effi Briest during the Sino- Japanese War (189495). Moreover, both were linked to debates taking place in the various articles published alongside them on con- temporary cultural and political issues. While neither novel directly referenced the articles in their respective journals, both meshed topically with reports that sug- gested that Asia posed a threat to European civilization.
The immediate link between Tolstoys work and various articles in the journal are the many references to Turks at a time when war between Russia and the Ottoman Empire seemed imminent. When the people of the Balkans revolted against the Turks in 1875 and thousands of Bulgarians were killed, Russians were horrified.
Panslavists in Russia called for the unification of all Slavs, and countless Russians volunteered to join the fight against the Turks. In 1876, Tolstoy went to Moscow to inform himself on the war that seemed likely to erupt (Eikhenbaum 123), and in the final section of Anna Karenina he questioned the sincerity of the movement under way in his country to unite all Slavs against the Turks. Tolstoys critique ran counter to ideas in many of the articles in the Russkij Vstnik, which not only outlined the frictions in the region but also expressed views similar to those of the Panslavists,sometimes even pointing out that the problem was that the Turks were not Euro- peans but Asians. Not surprisingly, the editor Mikhail Katkov refused to publish the final part of Anna Karenina.
Fontanes work also gains its connection to discourses in the journal in which 86 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 it appeared through references to a topical issue of the day. Effi Briest not only mentions China, the site of war at the time and focus of numerous articles in the Deutsche Rundschau, but also depicts a Chinese man in Prussia who passed away shortly after an affair with a European woman and then returned to haunt the hero- ines life. Germans did not have the direct connection to the war between China and Japan that Russians had to their war against the Turks, but numerous articles in the 189495 issues of the Deutsche Rundschau exhibit the sentiment that the Japanese were Europeanized Asians fighting to bring European civilization to a more Asiatic China. Some also suggested, however, that a powerful Asia united under Japan could pose a threat to the economic and cultural sway Europe then enjoyed throughout the world. As a ghost, the Chinese figure adds an element of horror to Fontanes novel, given the context of the articles on the Sino- Japanese War. He also poses a menace as a Chinese man who successfully wooed one Euro- pean woman and frequently visits Effis bedroom. This Chinese man symbolically suggests the presence of a potentially powerful Asia in Europe, and, like the Turk in Tolstoys novel, represents a challenge to the European order emanating from non- Christian Asia.
In an insightful study of nineteenth- century novels of adultery, Tatiana Kuzmic has demonstrated that Anna Karenina and Effi Briest participated in the budding ethnic nationalism of their era. Anna Karenina depicts the enthusiasm in Rus- sian society preceding what is generally thought to have been a holy war between Orthodox Christians and Ottoman Muslims.1 However, Kuzmic has pointed out that ethnicity also played a role throughout Tolstoys work, especially in his call for Slavic unity against the Turks. Similarly, Effi Briest depicted frictions between Ger- mans and non- Germans in Bismarcks Prussia. In fact, against the background of the articles in Russkij Vstnik and the Deutsche Rundschau, the Turks and the Chi- nese ghost appear not to be merely an ethnic other but specifically non- Christian Asian intruders in a European world. Granted, the Ottoman Turks were indeed the conquerors of Southeastern Europe and some Chinese angry about the un- fair treaties with the European powers did act aggressively toward Europeans,but articles in Russkij Vstnik and the Deutsche Rundschau emphasize that the Turks and the Chinese were Asian tribes that were especially resistant to Euro- pean civilization. Neither the Turks of Anna Karenina nor the Chinese of Effi Briest would have seen in each other a cultural or ethnic compatriot, but articles in the Russkij Vstnik and the Deutsche Rundschau portrayed them uniformly as Asians,and it is in terms of this concept that they are considered here.
Although separated by two languages and cultures and published more than a decade and a half apart and during two different wars, the serial novels Anna Karenina and Effi Briest both constituted a piece of the social and political commen- tary in their respective journals. By placing these two novels back into their original
The Asian Threat in Europe 87 contexts of publication, we gain insights into discourses pitting Asia against Europe in ways that presage later developments toward the race- and culture- specific epi- thet of the so- called yellow peril.2 Views of Asia in Russkij Vstnik and the Deutsche Rundschau Not simply reactions to the coming war between Russians and Turks, anti- Asian statements throughout Russkij Vstnik bespeak Russias rather complex relation- ship with Asia. Because Russia geographically covers both Europe and Asia and was influenced by both cultural spheres, Russians developed an understanding of themselves as both Europeans and Asians. As practitioners of Orthodox Chris- tianity, for instance, they embraced a branch of the faith shared by most Euro- peans. However, the Mongols who conquered Russia in the thirteenth century also influenced Russian culture, even if the Russian language distinguished the years of Mongolian rule negatively as the period under the Tatar yoke (tatarskoe igo).
When Constantinople fell to the Ottoman Turks in 1453, Russians came to view Moscow as the surviving link to the fallen empire, the direct heir to Byzantium and the last remaining seat of Orthodox religion, with a messianic role to save the Christian world (Figes 300). Religion became intertwined with notions of eth- nicity, and when the Russians definitively defeated the ruling Tatars in 1552, they celebrated it as an Orthodox victory over Asia (376). However, many Russians also embraced their ties to Asia, and from the fifteenth to the seventeenth centuries some families even took Turkic names to match the positive image of Asians at the time (363). In the eighteenth century, Peter the Great forced Russians to adopt various aspects of European culture, and much of the nobility came to see them- selves as part of Europe.
Anna Karenina appeared at a time when Russian- Asian relations were marked by wars in which Russia conquered much of Central Asia. Although absorbed into the Russian empire, Central Asian tribes were not simply considered Russian but remained alien peoples (inorodtsy).3 However, from the 1860s to the 1880s, various Russian thinkers saw links between their culture and Asia, much to the chagrin of nationalists. Examining various loanwords and folktales, Vladimir Stasov theorized a Russian cultural heritage that had been shaped by Asian cultures.4 Alexander Herzen came to believe that Russias Mongolian heritage had saved Russians from Roman Catholicism and preserved traditional Russian village life (Sarkisyanz 247).
Nevertheless, a negative image of Asia persisted. In 1885, Sergei Yuzhakov explained Russian expansion into the Orient as a struggle against nomadic Asia (qtd. in Sar- kisyanz 247). Later, Vladimir Soloviev imagined a struggle between the European West, which included Russia, and the Asian East (249). 88 The Comparatist 35 : 2011
Turning our attention to the Russkij Vstnik, we find that various articles sur- rounding Anna Karenina depicted Turks as an aggressive Asian tribe in a part of Slavic Europe that Russians felt destined to defend. In a historical overview of the Balkans, one article from March 1876 commented that initially relations be- tween the Slavs and the Turks who conquered them in 1459 were good. Records from the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries described the Turks as inspiring. During this period, they were considered to be honest (), magnanimous (), and tolerant (), but the Slavs respected them most for their prowess in battle:     ,(56:18) [They were impressed by the Turks arts of war, by their desperate valor and loyalty to the sultan].5 An abrupt change in their relationship occurred around the sixteenth century, when Turkish rulers came to be described as greedy () and proud ().
They treated the peoples of the Balkans like slaves (56:18), and a deep hatred against Turks took root (56:19).
According to some articles in Russkij Vstnik, the root of the conflict was to be found in the Turks Asian, or at least non- European, origins. In June 1876, a piece on contemporary politics referred to -
(7:448) [pseudo- europeanized Turkey], thereby labeling the Turks a people foreign to Europe. More specifically, the author portrayed the Turkish people as deceitful Asians with a (7:450) [language given to the Asian to please and deceive friend and foe alike]. For Turks to become like Europeans, the article stated, it would be neces- sary  ,    ,    (7:45152) [that Turks, from one day to the next, stop being Turks], something that required the renunciation of the Koran and conversion to Christianity. Another writer in 1876 asked whether it would even be worth the effort to subject the Turks to European culture, pointing out that, while Europeans generally believed that schools brought enlightenment and thus more education could change the Turks, one scholar (Vamberi) had argued that Turkish children were often smarter than European children but rarely developed into remarkable adults. In the future, this author be- lieved, Russia and Europe would have to watch over the changes in the Balkans to ensure that the peoples in the region carried out proper reforms (1112:40507).
In 1877, an article referred to the Turks in relation to the biblical Ishmael,meaning that they were Muslims, and called them the enemy of all of Christian Europe (12:449). However, their faith alone did not distinguish them from Euro- peans. The Turks were neither a part of European civilization nor from the Arab world, according to this article, but rather were a Tatar tribe from Central Asia (1
2:450, 452). What made this Asian tribe so different from other peoples was its na-
The Asian Threat in Europe 89 tional character:     ,,(12:456) [The distinguishing features of Turkish national character are cruelty and haughtiness, the spirit of indolence and in addition to that the urge to dominate]. In fact, Europeans in the Balkans had been enslaved by an Asiatic people whose politics were (1
2:4589) [a rejection of the very foundations on which the contemporary inter-
national law of civilized states rest[ed]]. Considering that another article in 1877 discussed the contemporary colonization of Asia and stated that much of Asia had already entered into some form of contractual relationship with Russia or various European states, one must wonder whether the implication was not that Turkey was next on the list of places to colonize (34:513).
The Asian Turk presented in Russkij Vstnik was not so much something to be feared but simply a violent savage that civilized Russians must subdue. Thus,while the articles described the horrors of the war and the brutality of the Turks,they served as a call to arms against an inferior enemy who deserved punishment.
One piece from 1876 covered the writers two- month stay in Constantinople, where [] , ,(9:463) [no one doubted, it seems,the bankruptcy, unscrupulousness, and [political] impotency of Turkish regents].
According to reports of the struggle going on in the Balkans, the Serbs could not match the power of the Turks and needed Russias help (10:895), but an eyewitness account of the conflict in 1876 painted the picture of a weak Turkish military that had to throw nails, rocks, and the like at their enemy (1112:825). Contributing to the idea that Turkish power had been on the decline for some time, an article in 1877 discussed the long- held plan in Europe to drive the Turks out of the region (12:5).
Just as Russian views of Turks as Asians gain meaning within the context of the Russian subjugation of Central Asia, so too must comments on Asians in the Deutsche Rundschau be read from the perspective of German colonialist aspira- tions. Between 1890 and 1894, when it is estimated that Fontane finished the first version of Effi Briest and then reworked it several times (Jolles 78), Germans would have seen a number of Asian visitors in Berlin. The first Chinese Legation opened in Berlin in 1877, for example, and numerous Japanese scholars came to Germany in the last few decades of the nineteenth century. Nevertheless, most Europeans at the time would not have been able to distinguish between the Chinese and Japanese visitors.6 In both Europe and the United States, most people generalized all Asians of the so- called Far East as peoples related to the Mongols. China was not yet a German colony in 189495, but numerous articles described the various regions of 90 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 Asia in terms of the degree to which the natives had adopted European notions of civilization. One article described Koreans, for example, as a people auf einer we- sentlich tieferen Stufe der Civilisation als ihre beiden Nachbarvlker (81:134) [on a substantially lower level of civilization than both of the neighboring peoples], the Chinese and Japanese. Another author wrote of an abstract sort of Great Wall in China that had held the country back developmentally (81:310). Yet another author claimed that many Germans saw the Chinese as barbarians (81:269).
Although European nations imagined that their culture made them superior to the various colonized peoples, this sense of superiority did not make them feel entirely safe. They tended to categorize the Japanese and Chinese as racially in- ferior to Caucasians, but they also believed them to be racially closer to Europeans than negroes (Kowner 10810). Social Darwinism spread throughout all of Europe,and there was no lack of such theorists in the German- speaking world. Oscar Peschel, for instance, argued that Native Americans were a weak people that could not compete with whites and blacks and, therefore, eventually would be wiped out. Ernst Haeckel, Friedrich Hellwald, Ludwig Bchner, Ernst Krause, and others wrote grim interpretations of racial relations that would result in violent struggle.7 Ludwig Gumplowicz, a Polish Jew in the Austro- Hungarian Empire, wrote in Der Rassenkampf (1883; The Racial War) of coming struggles between the races and discussed, among other things, the possibility of a future clash between Europe and Asia.8 Geographer Friedrich Ratzels idea that there might be limited living space (Lebensraum) in the world gave Germans another reason to worry that their country might be threatened by foreign competitors. In addition, concerns arose about the declining birth rate in Europe. When compared to the masses of Asia, Europeans seemed destined to disappear. By the turn of the century, such fears gave rise to ideas like Christian von Ehrenfelss notion that monogamy had weakened Europe and that Europeans should model future reproductive strategies on those of polygamous China, a country with prodigiously high birth rates. If whites did not change their mating habits, Ehrenfels believed, they might one day be absorbed by a tougher race of Mongols.9
European apprehensions about powerful Mongols fed growing fears of inter- racial competition. The industrialization of East Asia in the 1880s led to concern about Europes ability to compete against such a densely populated part of the world. Many came to believe that the Chinese could be trained to work better than Africans, and in the years 189094 one could read in a colonial journal (Deutsche Kolonialzeitung) discussions regarding whether Chinese laborers should be brought to German colonies. In 1894, E. Tappenbeck warned against bringing Chi- nese into the colonies because they might outperform not only the blacks but also the whites. Thus, some believed that, if given the opportunity, the Chinese would rise to greater power than whites.10
The Asian Threat in Europe 91
Articles in the Deutsche Rundschau evince such fear of competition from Asia. One article described general European interest in Asia in terms of a desire to secure Asian ports that would ensure a steady flow of Asian goods to Europe (81:14344). The opening of China to European trade and culture appeared to be not merely positive but der gewaltigste Vorgang in der Handelsgeschichte der Menschheit (81:144) [the greatest event in the human races history of trade]. There was concern, however, that a Japanese victory over China might convince the Chi- nese that they did not need Europeans, since they simply could trade with their fellow Asian cousins (81:144). One article even cautioned German readers not to cheer the Japanese on too enthusiastically, lest the wealth of Asia fall forever into the hands of Asians alone. If China became an industrial nation on the model of European countries, it warned, competition might come to Europe that could de- prive German workers of their livelihood (82:296).
Another factor that added to a negative view of China was the Chinese resistance to Christianity. Missionaries intent on converting the Chinese were accompanied by Europeans seeking trade. Arnold Janssen founded the Society of the Divine Word (S.V.D.) in 1875 with large- scale conversion of non- Christians as its goal. By 1879, the
S.V.D. was represented in China by the aggressive German nationalist Johann Baptist
von Anzer whose fervent attempts to convert the Chinese to Catholicism won him few Chinese friends. Protestants were also active throughout China but with less success and they had few converts in the area where the Boxer Uprising occurred.
Anti- missionary riots began in the Yangzi Valley as early as 1891, and when Ger- many claimed Jiaozhou Bay and Qingdao (Kiautschou and Tsingtao) as a colony in 1898, it did so in response to the murder of two German missionaries.11
The issues of the Deutsche Rundschau of 189495 contain detailed commentary on Asians rejection of Christianity. One could read, for instance, that the spread of Christianity throughout Korea had been held in check durch grausame Ma- regeln (81:134) [by cruel measures] and that Europeans in China perpetually suf- fered under unausgesetzten Christenverfolgungen (81:135) [constant persecution of Christians]. Many attacks on Christians seemed to have been the result of the Europeans attempts to force Christianity upon the Chinese, but one article ex- plained Chinese rejection of Christianity from various perspectives that German readers must have found unsettling. The Chinese appeared to be a superstitious people, for example, who believed that Christians stole the eyes of converts and that missionaries spread illness. According to this article, two Protestant female missionaries had nearly been ripped to pieces by the superstitious Chinese masses (81:258). The same article also told of Chinese scholars who had provided well- reasoned intellectual arguments against Christianity (81:259). One of the biggest mistakes Europeans had made when introducing Christianity to the Chinese, the article explained, was that they had rejected the Chinese practice of revering the 92 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 ancestors. Chinese families shared their possessions with all family members, but anyone who gave up the connection to the deceased ancestors also gave up the family and all access to its wealth. Some Chinese had reacted in anger, therefore,when European missionaries had defended Chinese converts as individuals who deserved a portion of the family wealth (81:26263).
The Deutsche Rundschau described only one Asian country as civilized: Japan.
However, some expressed disbelief, if not concern, that the Japanese had not ac- cepted Christianity. One author was impressed with Japans achievements, for ex- ample, but pointed out that no non- European people had adopted European civili- zation without also accepting Christianity (81:144). Despite the general Japanese rejection of Christianity, various articles described the Japanese war against China as an attempt to modernize and civilize the Chinese. According to one article, the conflict pitted a refined Japan against a backward China. The expected result was Chinas Verkehrung zu mehr modernen Anschauungen (81:310) [conversion to more modern ways of seeing things]. Another article commented that the Germans tended to support the Japanese war against the Chinese in the belief that a Japanese victory would have a positive result for Europe, namely, [d]ie Chinesen ordentlich aufzurtteln und der westlichen Cultur zugnglich zu machen (82:296) [to shake the Chinese awake and make them accessible to western culture]. In 1894, a blurb in the Deutsche Rundschau on a book of Japanese poetry in German translation by Dr. K. Florenz promised its readers deeper understanding of a people that was both much like the Germans and also destined for greatness (81:478).
In 1895, many Germans wrote letters of sympathy to the Japanese expressing what Rolf- Harald Wippich calls the war enthusiasm of the man on the street (68). Over the course of its westernization, Japan had adopted countless cul- tural items and practices from Prussian Germany, and thus many Germans saw in Japans potential victory over China not only the ascendancy of European cul- ture over Asian heathendom, but specifically also a demonstration of Prussian- German power (Wippich 7071). Many Germans believed the Sino- Japanese War to be Japans holy mission, and German letters to Japan expressed ardent desire for Chinas defeat (71).
Articles in the Deutsche Rundschau also critiqued Japan, however, and sug- gested beginning apprehensions that the Asian masses might unite under the mili- tarily more advanced Japanese and threaten Europe. These fears of what later came to be called the yellow peril developed more fully in the German- speaking world in the two decades following the Sino- Japanese War, but one can find hints of its beginnings in the issues of the Deutsche Rundschau that featured Fontanes Effi
Briest. Japan appeared to be an Asian bully, or in Ostasien das aggressive Element (81:265) [in East Asia the aggressive element]. Indeed, as much as the Japanese had
The Asian Threat in Europe 93 adopted European ways, they appeared to have maintained a natural hatred for outsiders: [Der] Japaner [ist] das geblieben, was er war, . . . der Asiat . . . , der den Fremden viel mehr hat. . . als der sympathischere Chinese (82:296) [The Japanese has remained what he was . . . the Asian. . . who hates foreigners far more . . . than does the more likeable Chinese]. One article from 1894 warned readers that, since Japan owed much of its military success to European technology, a Chinese popu- lace that generally disliked foreigners might be moved to Ausschreitungen gegen Europer (81:310) [offenses against Europeans].
Various physical descriptions of Asians demonstrate a deeper German fear of the potential strength of a pan- Asian army. Koreans, for example, were described as hearty members of a branch of the Mongolian race most similar to the northern Chinese: [S]ie sind gro, krftig gebaut und unermdliche Arbeiter (81:133) [They are tall, strongly built and untiring workers]. Similarly, the natives struggling against the Dutch in Lombok were described as krftige, musculse Krieger (81:150) [strong, muscular warriors]. Another article explained that a Japanese victory over China would likely yield a new Chinese military consisting of awe- inspiring war- riors made up of people who were tapfer, ausdauernd und anspruchslos und be- drfen nur guter Fhrung, um vortreffliche Soldaten zu werden (81:268) [bold,tenacious and undemanding and only in need of good leadership to become out- standing soldiers]. There was even speculation that, if Japan could lead China, it might mimic Napoleonic France and threaten all the states of Europe (82:297).
The issues of Russkij Vstnik and the Deutsche Rundschau that featured Anna Karenina and Effi Briest portrayed Asians as belligerent people lacking the civi- lized ways of Europeans, but it is important to note that the aggressive land- grab throughout Asia that Russia and Europe engaged in during the nineteenth century casts dubious light on the intentions of authors in these journals who wrote of a threat from Asia. While neither novel evinces the range of negative views of Asia covered in their respective journals, this summary sets a general tone against which to judge the appearance of Turks on the periphery in Tolstoys work and the Chi- nese ghost in the heroines bedroom in Fontanes novel.
The Asian Threat in Anna Karenina and Effi Briest The debates taking place in Russkij Vstnik and the Deutsche Rundschau echo throughout the pages of Anna Karenina and Effi Briest. Tolstoy himself considered Russia a part of the Orient, which also included China, Persia, Turkey, and India (Sarkisyanz 251), but the narrator of Anna Karenina conspicuously marked non- Russian characters in ethnic terms, suggesting that non- Russians were considered 94 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 outsiders. It is within this context that one can read references to Turks throughout the novel. Similarly, the feature of the ghost that most preoccupies the characters in Effi Briest is not that he is a ghost but that he is Chinese, a person whom the society of the narrative could never fully accept.
In Anna Karenina, the two most ostensible reasons for Russians to declare war on the Ottoman Empire are the desire to defend Orthodox Christians against their Muslim oppressors and the Panslavists call to Slavic unity, or the much intoned Slavic cause. However, the book hints that Russian volunteers are also motivated simply by their hatred for Turks. For many, the desire to liberate the Balkan Slavs is also just a cover for other more personal goals. In part, the reasons for the gen- eral furor that develops around the Slavic cause are obscured by the inability of many characters in Anna Karenina to live according to their own true ideals. In- deed, the bulk of the Russian aristocracy in the novel leads its entire life under false
pretenses.
Although many people in the novel rush off in support of the Slavic cause, there is little reason to believe in their sincerity as the narrative society in Anna Karenina is so deeply committed to maintaining appearances that many seem unaware of their own motivations for anything they do. Anna, for instance, believes herself to be someone who is truthful, or at least one who dislikes lying (9:213), but she lives a lie in nearly everything but her love for Vronsky. At the beginning of the story, Anna visits Dolly to console her during her time of grief over her husbands affair, but she merely hopes to trick Dolly into forgiving the unfaithful Stepan Arkadyevich, who is also Annas brother. The narrator comments that Anna knew exactly which words to use to touch Dolly most deeply (9:73). In the end, she is not so much pleased by the couples reconciliation as by her own role as mediator (9:79). Annas manipu- lative nature is further revealed in a passage describing her as someone who does not simply blush but who has the   (9:77) [ability to blush].
Her sister- in- law has a flash of insight into Annas character when she notices that Annas manner of speaking reminds her of her cheating husband (9:103). Later,when Anna has almost no relationship with her own children, she entertains the delusion of being a doting mother- figure to an English girl and spends time writing a childrens book (10:263). Anna deceives herself even in her choice to commit sui- cide. She believes that she needs to punish Vronsky for his lack of love, but too late she realizes her error and cannot back out of her decision (10:33536).
Much of the society in which Anna finds herself exhibits similar proclivities.
Even the language the aristocracy speaks, French, shows itself to be a tool used to avoid Russian words with meanings connected to values some may secretly hold.
As the narrator tells us, Vronsky uses French - (9:192) [avoiding the impossibly cold formal you and the dangerous informal you in Russian]. Because the French lan-
The Asian Threat in Europe 95 guage distinguishes between a formal and an informal you in the same way that Russian does, we can assume that, for Vronsky, the Russian language expresses a truth from which one can hide in French.
Since many claim that they want to defend their Christian brethren, it is worth- while to examine the characters notions of Christianity. In fact, they are anything but model Christians. Anna notices that Lydia Ivanovna believes herself to be Christian but always has enemies in the name of Christianity (9:113). Moreover,various Christian values, such as the sanctity of marriage, have lost their meaning.
For many, marriage has become largely a social act (9:100), and adultery is even considered a fine thing, as long as one is not caught (9:13233). Stepan Arkadyevich claims to be a good Christian, but then also mocks marriage as a (10:262) [old custom]. For much of the novel, Vronsky thinks loyalty in marriage to be an old- fashioned custom (9:119) and his mother is initially proud of his af- fair (9:178). Anna believes that religion is merely a tool for her husband to advance in his career (9:212) and Karenin himself admits that he is interested in religion in order to gain political advantages and also to feel better than others (10:80). Even a clergyman ignores Levins repeated admission that he doubts religion (10:9).
The Slavic cause itself has more to do with personal gain (10:339) and the desire to fit into the crowd than with sympathy for the suffering Slavs. When asked why he is heading for the Balkans, one officer admits that everyones going (10:334). Ac- cording to Sergei Ivanovich, one fights for the emancipation of forty million Slavs (10:380). In fact, this statement shows that these Russians are not self- reflective, for the various remarks made about the partition of Poland and the Russification of Poles in Russian territory indicate that they are unable, or unwilling, to see their own oppression of another group of Christian Slavs (9:342, 389, 391). In fact, the Slavic question distracts Sergei Ivanovich from the disappointment of his unsuc- cessful book (10:339). Another volunteer is a drunkard and thief who could find no work in his home town (10:345). Similarly, Yashvin volunteers only after losing everything to gambling (10:347). Vronsky himself merely hopes to be killed in action in order to find relief from his pain, and his own mother admits that the war is a blessing, because it will help her son get his mind off of Annas suicide (10:347).
For the press, war simply means doubled earnings (10:376).
Anna Karenina makes comparatively few ethnic references until part eight,when Turks seem to appear in everyones conversations. However, against the back- drop of the various articles discussed above, even subtle hints at racism in the novel stand out and suggest the extent to which Tolstoys characters are also motivated by an ethnic hatred against Turks. At the beginning of the book, Levin and Stepan Arkadyevich eat at a restaurant where the waiters are referred to as Tatars, thus limiting their identity largely to their ethnicity and highlighting their difference (9:39).12 Later, Anna rides in a carriage with a coachman described also simply 96 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 as a ,   (9:145) [elderly, fat Tatar]. Stepan Arkayevich has other racial prejudices, too, for when he seeks an appointment to the Com- mittee for Southern Railways and goes to meet with a certain Bolgarinov, he is irritated that he,   [a descendant of Rurik], is forced to sit for two hours    (10:290) [in the waiting room of a Jew].13 His friend Bartnyansky also wonders how he could possibly have dealings with Jews (10:297).
Arabs, too, are mentioned toward the end of the novel, when Sergei Ivanovich and Katavasov, dirty from the road, are described as (10:349) [dusty like Arabs]. Katavasov exclaims that he is no  [negro] but will wash up and soon look    (10:349) [like a human being].
None of these characters are attacked due to their non- Russian ethnicity, but clearly they elicit heightened attention due to their cultural and racial differences in addi- tion to fairly standard prejudices against Jews and Arabs.
In the Russian volunteers readiness to fight Muslim Turks, the stress is noticeably on the enemys Turkishness. In one case, the enemy is described as (10:373) [profane [descendants] of Hagar], an anti- Muslim reference,but more often they are labeled ethnically. When asked with whom so many Russian volunteers are heading off to fight, Sergei Ivanovich answers simply (10:372) [with the Turks]. He admits that war has not yet been declared,but he explains the Russian urge to fight the Turks simply as a ,[humane, Christian feeling] for the sufferings of the peoples of the Balkans, whom he also defines in terms of both their religious affilia- tion and their ethnicity:  ,(10:373) [They are killing [people who are our] brothers in blood and in faith].14 There are no actual Turkish characters with whom Russians in the novel interact,but the Turks are mentioned numerous times as a force in the background against which Russia is proving its mettle. According to Russian newspapers, the Slavs fought well and   (10:341) [crushed the Turks]. In fact, the reports are so sensational that some volunteers wonder whether they have any reason to join in the struggle when ,   ,(10:345) [Turks, according to the most recent information, had been de- feated at all points].
Levin casts strong doubt on the implied righteousness of Russians involved in the Slavic cause, commenting that people who have nothing to lose are always ready to run off for some cause, such as for Pugachev, for Khiva, and now for Serbia (10:375). The significance of these three examples is that they each have to do with an enemy from the Asian steppe. Pugachev was a famous Don Cossack from the steppes who started a revolt in the eighteenth century. Khiva was one of the regions in Central Asia that the Russians conquered in the nineteenth century.
The Asian Threat in Europe 97 Finally, Serbia symbolizes, at least in part, a war against a people that articles in Russkij Vstnik described as an Asian tribe that had enslaved European Slavs. Thus, Levins remarks suggest not only that this war against the Turks is crazy but perhaps even part of a plan to colonize Turkey, like Khiva. When Sergey Ivanovich declares that Russians are ready to make sacrifices for their fellow Slavs, Levin counters:,    (10:376) [But not only to make sacrifices, but to kill Turks]. Indeed, Levin believes that the volunteers go to commit an act of vengeance and murder (10:377), and he wonders whether non- Christians,like Buddhists and Muslims, were not actually just as good as Christians (10:381).
While it is not difficult to find the correlation between threatening Asiatic Turks described in articles in Russkij Vstnik and the preparations for war against Turks taking place in Anna Karenina, the danger that the Chinese ghost in Effi Briest poses is more subtly suggested. Initially, only the Swiss literary critic Josef Viktor Widmann commented on this unusual figure. Fontane later mentioned in a well- known letter to Widmann that the Chinese man actually served as the very Dreh- punkt [pivot] on which the plot of the novel turns (Schafarschik 112). Since 1895,this Chinese ghost has received a wide array of interpretations, ranging from a minor literary effect (Stern 372) or simply part of a story with which Effis hus- band tries to control her (Greenberg 772) to a symbol of the foreignness matching Effis own inner estrangement (Mittenzwei 14142) and her discontentment in the straight- laced society of Kessin that prevented individual fulfillment outside expected norms (Robinson 172; Rainer 55356; Swales 122; Subiotto 148). More recently, the ghost has been viewed in relation to Germanys stance toward Asia,whether as a stereotyped Oriental figure associated with the pleasures of love (Schuster 11617), an expression of marital and imperial domination during the era of German imperialism (Utz 223), or as the representative of a non- Christian exotic culture at a time when China was considered Europes cultural opposite (Shieh 110 14, 117). Some scholars have even offered a perspective on Fontanes own tendencies toward patriotism and racism, providing potentially negative implications for the Chinese ghost in Effi Briest.15
All of these interpretations have their meritsas perhaps only Grawe has pointed out aptly! (112)but, within the context of the Deutsche Rundschau that explained the peculiarities of non- Christian China, Effi Briest is connected to a discussion outside the novel concerning competition from a potentially aggressive Asia. In fact, Effi Briests Chinese man repeatedly outperforms German men for the attention of their women, for he not only attracted one European woman during his lifetime but also made multiple appearances in Effis bedroom after his death,a degree of intimacy with Effi that Innstetten never achieves. Indeed, Innstetten never occupies Effis thoughts in her bedroom in the way that the Chinese ghost 98 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 does. In this respect, the Chinese ghost suggests that the feared competition from Asia mentioned in the articles in the Rundschau had already arrived in Germany and begun to threaten the established order.
Effi hears about the Chinese man on the way to her new home in the port- town of Kessin in East Pommerania. Her husband tells her that the house they will share once was owned by a sea captain named Thomsen who had returned from busi- ness in Asia with a Chinese man as his servant. At some point, the Chinese man attracted the attention of a female relative of the captaineither his niece or his granddaughterand she danced with him just before she fled from her groom, who was also a sea captain. Shortly after the young womans disappearance, the Chinese man mysteriously died. Innstetten leaves out the details of the story, but he insinu- ates that the Chinese mans death had something to do with the womans disappear- ance, for in his narrative the one event immediately follows the other (81:185). Later, Effis servant Roswitha speculates more explicitly about the romantic nature of the relationship between the Chinese man and the Prussian woman: Entweder war es eine unglckliche Liebe . . . oder es kann auch eine glckliche gewesen sein und der Chinese konnte es blo nicht aushalten, das es Alles mit einem Male so wieder vorbei sein sollte (81:23) [Either it was an unhappy love . . . or it could have been a happy one and the Chinese man simply could not bear to see it all end so quickly].
When Effi moves into her home, the Chinese man returns as a ghost that haunts her bedroom.
Effis own character and the Prussian society that seeks to inhibit her natural inclinations contribute to the potential danger that the Chinese man embodies.
Because the Prussian society Fontane portrays dictates that a young woman like Effi marry an older, more established man like Innstetten, it seemingly condemns her to future marital strife, if not to the very affair for which the novel is known.
Effis passion for the exotic suggests that she might find someone like Innstetten,a career man who commits more time to the politics of Kessin and the German Reich than to his marriage, boringly familiar. Much like Captain Thomsens niece or granddaughter!before her, Effi might have preferred the company of someone from a place as far away as China. She has good reason to fear the Chinese ghost in her bedroom, therefore, because his unusual background makes him attractive to someone with her tastes. The society in which Effi finds herself, however, embraces the German ethnic nationalism prevalent in nineteenth- century Prussia and does not encourage her to indulge her natural inclinations. Given his proximity to Bis- marck, Innstetten is the epitome of such nationalism and both his prejudices and Kessins restrictive norms curb to some degree Effis appetite for different cultures.
Ironically, Innstettens various negative comments about Slavs achieve the opposite effect of his intentions, since Effi does not lose her interest in non- German peoples.
Indeed, her affair with the half- Pole Crampas underscores what makes the Chinese
The Asian Threat in Europe 99 ghost most frightful. Effi had originally hoped to meet in East Prussia someone different, someone like the Chinese man. More importantly, his presence affects the marriage of not just any German couple but one with close political ties to Bis- marck and thus suggests a threat to German unity itself.
From the beginning of her story, Effi exhibits the urge to indulge passions out- side the expected norm of her society. Prior to her marriage, she mentions that she is attracted to das Aparte (81:13) [the unusual], an inclination that even causes her to long for something more than simply a Musterehe (81:18) [model marriage].
There are even hints in the novel that Effi might enjoy travels in Asia with a man like Captain Thomsen. For instance, when Hulda exclaims that the yet unmarried Effi dresses and speaks like a Schiffsjunge (cabin- boy), Effi corrects her, saying that she is more like a Midshipman (81:7). Her eagerness to identify with a sailor marks her as someone who might seek adventure in foreign lands.
Effis mother does her best to contain her daughters dreams, but she worries that a man like Innstetten will not satisfy Effis need for adventure (81:24). When Effi
fantasizes during a shopping excursion in Berlin about the life she will begin in the eastern part of Prussia and imagines Kessin as a place close to Siberia, her mother points out how fantastical Effis notion of Kessin is and explains that Pommerania is not as far away as Petersburg or Archangelsk in Russia (81:1516). Later, Effi also lets her mother know that she secretly desires something Japanese for her bed- room[einen] japanische[n] Bettschirm [a Japanese screen]but her mother quells the urge with the comment that the people of Kessin would only laugh at such things (81:17). Effi agrees not to buy anything Japanese.
Upon first arriving in Kessin, Effi finds the place exciting because it has allerlei Exotisches (81:28) [all sorts of exotic things]. She specifically hopes to see einen Neger oder einen Trken oder vielleicht sogar einen Chinesen (81:28) [a negro or a Turk or perhaps even a Chinese man]. Interestingly, Kessin seems to promise everything she dreamed it would be, beginning with a foreign- looking fur coat and hat she sees on one of the local people. She points out that he looks like he might be a Starost, a figure of some import in Polish society, and decides that the people in Kessin are good- looking (81:27). Even the home she will inhabit with Inn- stetten initially fits her definition of what is delightfully unusual, for she compares it to that of a Turkish, Persian, or Indian prince, next to which her parents home in Hohen- Cremmen seems drftig und alltglich (81:164) [meager and common- place]. Later, she remarks that everything in Kessin seems so foreign and even Oriental: [E]s hat Alles so was Fremdlndisches hier . . . Alles so orientalisch (81:165) [Everything seems so exotic here . . . all so Oriental]. Again, she compares the home to that of an Indian prince (81:165).
Kessin has an altogether cosmopolitan feel, but the people of Kessin do not ac- cept much outside of their own restricted world. Effis husband exhibits the sort 100 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 of racist tendencies common to Prussian nationalists in the late nineteenth cen- tury. To Innstettens credit, his feelings toward non- Germans are not entirely con- sistent, for when Borcke claims that other lands do not have beautiful songs like those in Prussia, the narrator mentions that Innstetten does not think much of such forms of patriotism (82:10). Nevertheless, most of Innstettens comments on non- Germans indicate a tendency toward German nationalism. From the moment he and Effi enter Kessin, we witness the tensions between Germans and Slavs in Prussia. The Starost Effi so likes, for example, turns out to be a man named Gol- chowski, whom Innstetten does not trust because of his Slavic blood: Er ist nm- lich ein halber Pole. . . . Eigentlich ein unsicherer Passagier, dem ich nicht ber den Weg traue, und der wohl viel auf dem Gewissen hat (81:27) [He is, after all, a half- Pole. . . . Actually an uncertain sort, whom I do not trust and who likely has much on his conscience]. Golchowski runs an inn named after Bismarck (Zum Frsten Bismarck), a gesture made to communicate his loyalty to the German nationals around him, as Innstetten points out (81:27).
While Innstetten agrees with Effi that the Slavs are a pretty people, he then adds that one could say little more of them, and he suggests that the people and the re- gion around Kessin might be untrustworthy and unsafe: Hier ist Alles unsicher (81:27) [Everything is unsafe here]. When Effi worries that he has spoiled her image of people she must get to know, he assures her that she will not spend any time with Slavs. He even stresses that she need only come to know the people of Kessin since those who inhabit the countryside are an entirely different group, an- other Slavic people called Kashubians (81:2728). As befits her character, Effi re- sponds to her husbands description of the region with its many Slavs with one altogether positive word: entzckend (81:28) [delightful]. Innstetten holds preju- dices not only against Slavs, however: his appreciation of Richard Wagner seems to have as much to do with Wagners anti- Semitism as with his music (81:327). Jews do not occupy his mind overly much, but he exhibits clear prejudice against the majority of non- Germans in the region, and one can assume that he has similar feelings for both Jews and people as different from Germans as the Chinese.
Innstetten presents Effi with mixed impressions of Kessin and initially seems to support her enthusiasm by explaining that the port receives ships from all over the world and that one can find even the banners of the Chinese Dragon in Kessin (81:165). In the end, however, Innstetten nearly succeeds in discouraging Effis posi- tive view of Kessin and her excitement for other cultures by connecting them with what Effi might find most dangerous. When he tells of the Chinese man from the past, he mentions a pirate who was once involved with the Black Flags in Tongking,a group linked to the Taiping rebellion in China that remained a threat to France until 1886 (81:29). Later, when Crampas declares himself a man who will die a sol- diers death, Innstetten connects China once again to danger by suggesting that
The Asian Threat in Europe 101 Crampas serve under a people who had seen conflict recently, such as the Turks or the Chinese (81:342).
Above all, the story about the Chinese man who died in Kessin transforms Effis view of other cultures, and Innstetten points out that the man still lies buried in the dunes near the seaside, a place he describes as both alluring and eery: Es ist sehr schn und sehr schauerlich (81:28) [It is very beautiful and very fright- ening]. He promises to show Effi the site, but her excitement about meeting Chi- nese people vanishes instantly, and she admits that she cannot bear to see the grave,since it might disturb her sleep: [Ich] mchte doch nicht, wenn ich diese Nacht hoffentlich gut schlafe, gleich einen Chinesen an mein Bett treten sehen (81:28) [I dont want, if I am hopefully going to sleep well tonight, to immediately see a Chi- nese man step up to my bed]. Rather out of character, Effi confesses that she finds the Chinese man to be creepy: Ein Chinese, find ich, hat immer was Gruse- liges (81:28) [ A Chinese man, I think, always is a bit creepy]. When the couple finally arrives at their home, Innstetten suggests that Effi is nervous due to both the journey and also their discussion of the Chinese man. Effi retorts that he did not actually tell her the full story of the Chinese man. Instead of finishing the story, Innstetten terminates discussion with a remark that suggests that the Chinese are somehow especially peculiar: Aber ein Chinese ist schon an und fr sich eine Ge- schichte (81:30) [But a Chinese man is entirely a story of its own].
The Chinese man stands out as markedly non- German because he is a non- Christian in a region inhabited primarily by Protestants. According to the narra- tors description of Ritterschaftsrthin von Padden, even physical characteristics identified one as either a non- German heathen, in her case a Slav, or a Christian German (82:17). The narrator even seems to make light of this womans lineage,commenting that she might be descended from the pagan Slavic deities Radegast and Swantowit (82:17). Protestant values also dominate in Hohen- Cremmen: Effi recalls that Pastor Niemeyer once claimed that a Christian name had some mysterious power to determine a persons character. Of course, the Chinese man had neither Christian- German physical features nor a Christian name, and Inn- stetten points out that he naturally could not be buried in the Christian cemetery (81:184). While it remains unclear whether the people of Kessin attacked the Chi- nese man for his relationship with the young woman, after his death he was treated as an outsider. The visiting singer Trippelli mentions that she had opposed her own father who had been open to burying the Chinese man in the Christian cemetery.
In fact, she rejected the Chinese man with exceptional harshness and even sug- gested her own racist tendencies by comparing herself to Torquemada, first grand inquisitor of the Spanish Inquisition (81:322). No non- Christian could be accepted among people with Trippellis views.
Effi stands between German Protestants and non- Germans, for local nobles 102 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 brand her an atheist soon after her arrival in the area. Since Effi shows a pref- erence for people and things outside the norm, it is fitting that her servant and trusted friend Roswitha is a Catholic during, or not long after, Bismarcks Kultur- kampf against Catholics (81:171). Furthermore, Crampass faith does not play a role in the novel, but his half- Polish background implies that in him the Protestant and Catholic worlds meet, a feature that must make him fascinating to Effi.
Effis eventual affair with Crampas highlights not only her acceptance of her own interest in the non- German world but also the weakness of Prussian norms.
We witness in this affair the second occasion in the novel in which a non- German in Prussia steals the affections of a woman away from her husband. Ironically, Inn- stetten may have heightened Effis attraction for Crampas inadvertently with an anti- Slavic remark regarding his unusual background: Aber er ist son halber Pole,kein rechter Verla, eigentlich in nichts, am wenigsten mit Frauen (82:4) [But he is a half- Pole, no real reliability, actually in nothing, least of all with women].
Moreover, it is not simply happenstance that Crampass favorite poet, Heinrich Heine, was a Jew. As the eventual object of Effis desire, Crampas represents every- thing that Innstetten is not.
Crampas seduces Effi, but the Chinese ghost remains close by her side in her bedroom and constitutes a constant non- German threat in the home. Although Effi imagines seeing him in nightmares, her belief that he might visit her bedroom signals what makes him scariest, especially in light of his involvement in a past love affair. The Chinese ghost enters Effis sphere of intimacy and serves as a persis- tent reminder of her attraction to the world outside the German Reich. Even after Crampas tells her that the Chinese ghost is part of a game her husband is playing with her, she imagines that the Chinese man looks over her shoulder. She decides on this occasion that the ghost is merely a manifestation of her conscience (82:20),but she later mentions her fear of the ghost to Innstetten and gives him racially dis- tinct physical characteristics: Nie bin ich die Angst hier ganz los geworden, nie.
Noch keine vierzehn Tage, da es mir ber die Schulter sah, dasselbe Gesicht, der- selbe fahle Teint. Und diese letzten Nchte, wo Du fort warst, war es auch wieder da,nicht das Gesicht, aber es schlurrte wieder (82:335) [Ive never really gotten rid of my fear here, never. Just under fourteen days ago, it looked over my shoulder, the same face, the same sallow complexion. And these past few nights, while you were away, it was there again, not the face, but it shuffled about again]. Effi never admits to having deeper romantic interest in her Chinese ghost, but the fact that she com- ments on the color of his skin demonstrates the degree to which she has fixated on this foreign man who visits her bedroom in her husbands absence. Later, she fondly recalls him to Roswitha as part of a more positive time of her life: Weit Du noch,wies damals war, als der Chinese spukte? Das waren glckliche Zeiten (82:335)
The Asian Threat in Europe 103 [Do you still remember how it was in those days, when the Chinese ghost haunted us? Those were happy times]. The Prussian norms that forced Effi into a marriage she might not have chosen for herself not only had shown her the worst in life but also had made a Chinese man and his ghost into an unusually horrific temptation.
Conclusion The Russo- Turkish War and the Sino- Japanese War made headlines even in such journals as the Russian Russkij Vstnik and the German Deutsche Rundschau, both of which dealt as much with culture and literature as with politics. In both cases,negative views of Asia presented in various articles reverberated also throughout the fictive societies of the nineteenth- century novels of adultery printed alongside them in serial format. Articles in Russkij Vstnik, the journal in which Leo Tolstoys Anna Karenina first appeared, not only condemned the Turks for their invasion of the Slavic world but also described them as belonging to an Asian tribe incapable of becoming truly civilized like the European peoples to which many Russians felt they belonged. From this perspective, comments various characters make in the final section of Anna Karenina about the war against not only Muslims but also specifically against Turks as well as about the Russians desire to kill Turks blend with and also document the racist, anti- Asian discourse taking shape at the time.
In the same vein, articles in Deutsche Rundschau, the journal that first published Theodor Fontanes Effi Briest, not only reported on the Sino- Japanese War but also expressed German apprehensions about a growing power in Asia that might limit or even destroy European civilization. Effis affair with Crampas destroys her mar- riage, but against the background of the articles discussed above her long- term re- lationship with the Chinese ghost, whom she fears more as an actual Chinese man than as a bodiless spirit, communicates deeper anxieties about German- Asian re- lations.
Neither Anna Karenina nor Effi Briest were explicitly as anti- Asian as some of the articles in their respective journals, but both depicted Asians as outsidersif not outright barbarianswho threatened European order and against whom an alarm must be sounded. This alarm would ring even louder at the end of the nine- teenth century in the developing epithetical notion of the yellow peril. However,in the years following their initial publication, the two works reappeared as bound volumes and thus became disconnected from the historical moment and context of their initial publication as serial novels that resonated with a budding discourse on Asia as the inevitable enemy of Europe. u Indiana University- Purdue University, Fort Wayne 104 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 notes 1 For information on the Russo- Turkish War as a holy war, see Norris 80106. 2 For more information on the concept of the yellow peril, see Gollwitzer. 3 For a brief history of Russian Central Asia, see Hosking 32027. 4 For details on the Asian aspects of Russian cultural heritage, see Figes 39199. 5 For the sake of clarity, I have mentioned in the main text the month of each journal I discuss and then also provided the volume number in which the journal later ap- peared as a collection. Unless otherwise noted, all translations are mine. 6 For information on European views of Asia at this time, see Kowner. 7 For more on Social Darwinism in Germany, see Weikart 27577. 8 For an overview of Gumplowiczs ideas on race relations, see Gollwitzer 176 and 278. 9 For more on Christian Ehrenfels reproductive strategies for a new Europe, see Dickinson 25761. 10 For information on measures against East Asian workers at this time, see Gollwitzer
16786.
11 For more on missionaries in China and the subsequent Boxer Uprising, see Esherick
7493. For information on the German colony of Tsingtao, see Chen Chi 2531.
12 Because the final part of Anna Karenina was intended for but never appeared in Russkij Vstnik, citations from the novel itself are taken from volumes nine and ten of a publication that retains all of the stylistic features of the original in Russkij Vstnik:see Tolstoj. 13 Rurik refers to the only partially mythic prince of the Scandinavian tribe Rus who agreed to rule over and give order to the lives of Slavic peoples that would eventually become known as Russians. See Hoskings 3031. 14 Kuzmic, who has examined Anna Karenina as a serial novel, also sees in it a statement against non- Russian ethnicities and has argued that, though the empire is troubled by peoples of alien blood, the end of the novel suggests that the Pan- Slavic cause can only entangle Russia in Balkan- style dismemberment (114). 15 For a general discussion of connections between Effi Briest and the colonial world,see Parr 21316. Chambers has suggested that Fontane viewed English colonialism as a source of inspiration for Germany. She has also found erotic references to women in the colonies in some of Fontanes poetry. See Chambers 15158.
Works Cited Bahr, Ehrhard. Fontanes Verhltnis zu den Klassikern. Pacific Coast Philology 11 (1976):
1522.
Chambers, Helen. Representations of Colonial Violence in the Poetry of Theodor Fontane. Violence, Culture and Identity: Essays on German and Austrian Literature Politics and Society. Ed. Helen Chambers. Bern: Peter Lang, 2006. 14363.
Chi, Chen. Die Beziehungen zwischen Deutschland und China bis 1933. Mitteilungen des Instituts fr Asienkunde Hamburg 56. Hamburg: Institut fr Asienkunde, 1973.
The Asian Threat in Europe 105 Clark, Christopher. Iron Kingdom: The Rise and Downfall of Prussia, 16001947.
Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2006.
Dickinson, Edward Ross. Sex, Masculinity, and the Yellow Peril: Christian Ehrenfels Program of a Revision of the European Sexual Order, 19021910. German Studies Review 25 (2002): 25584.
Eikhenbaum, Boris. Tolstoi in the Seventies. Trans. Albert Kaspin. Ann Arbor: Ardis,
1982.
Esherick, Joseph W. The Origins of the Boxer Uprising. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1987.
Figes, Orlando. Natashas Dance: A Cultural History of Russia. New York: Picador- Henry Holt and Company, 2002.
Fontane, Theodor. Effi Briest. Deutsche Rundschau 81 (1894): 132, 16191, 32154; 82:135, 16196, 298303.
Gollwitzer, Heinz. Die Gelbe Gefahr: Geschichte eines Schlagworts. Studien zum imperialistischen Denken. Gttingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 1962.
Grawe, Christian. Theodor Fontane: Effi Briest. Grundlagen zum Verstndnis erzhlender Literatur. Frankurt a.M.: Verlag Moritz Diesterweg, 1985.
Greenberg, Valerie D. The Resistance of Effi Briest: An (Un)told Tale. PMLA 103 (1988):
77082.
Hosking, Geoffrey. Russia and the Russians. Cambridge: Belknap- Harvard University Press, 2001.
Jolles, Charlotte. Theodor Fontane. Sammlung Metzler 114. Stuttgart: J.B. Metzler, 1972.
Katkov, M., ed. Russkij Vstnik. Moskva: Universitetskaja Tipografija T. Volkova, 1856
1906.
Kowner, Rotem. Lighter than Yellow, but not Enough: Western Discourse on the Japanese Race , 18541904. The Historical Journal 43 (2000): 10331.
Kuzmic, Tatiana. Adulterous Nations: Family Politics and National Identity in the European Novel. Diss. University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, 2008.
Mittenzwei, Ingrid. Der Chinese, die Briefe und das weite Feld: Effi Briest. Die Sprache als Thema: Untersuchungen zu Fontanes Gesellschaftroman. Berlin: Verlag Dr. Max Gehlen, 1970. 13345.
Norris, Stephen M. A War of Images: Russian Popular Prints, Wartime Culture, and National Identity 18121945. DeKalb: Northern Illinois University Press, 2006.
Overton, Bill. Children and Childlessness in the Novel of Female Adultery. The Modern Language Review 94 (1999): 31427.
Parr, Rolf. Kongobecken, Lombok, und der Chinese im Haus Briest. Das Wissen um die Kolonien und das Wissen aus den Kolonien bei Theodor Fontane. Fontane und die Fremde: Fontane und Europa. Ed. Konrad Ehlich. Wrzburg: Knigshausen & Neumann, 2002. 21228.
Rainer, Ulrike. Effi Briest und das Motiv des Chinesen. Rolle und Darstellung in Fontanes Roman. Zeitschrift fr deutsche Philologie 101 (1982): 54561.
Robinson, A.R. Theodor Fontane: An Introduction to the Man and his Work. Cardiff: University of Wales Press, 1976.
Rodenberg, Julius, ed. Deutsche Rundschau. Vol. 81. Berlin: Gebrder Paetel, 1894. 106 The Comparatist 35 : 2011 . Deutsche Rundschau. Vol. 82. Berlin: Gebrder Paetel, 1895.
Sarkisyanz, E. Russian Attitudes toward Asia. Russian Review 13 (1954): 24554.
Schafarschik, Walter. Theodor Fontane: Effi Briest. Stuttgart: Philipp Reclam jun., 1972.
Schneider, Jeffrey. Masculinity, Male Friendship, and the Paranoid Logic of Honor in Theodor Fontanes Effi Briest. The German Quarterly 75 (2002): 26581.
Schuster, Ingrid. Exotik als Chiffre: Zum Chinesen in Effi Briest. Wirkendes Wort 33.2 (1983): 11525.
Shieh, Jhy- Wey. Liebe, Ehe, Hausstand: Die sprachliche und bildliche Darstellung des Frauenzimmers im Herrenhaus in Fontanes Gesellschaftsroman Effi Briest.
Bochumer Schriften zur deutschen Literatur 3. Ed. Paul Gerhard Klussmann.
Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang, 1987.
Stern, J.P.M. Effi Briest: Madame Bovary: Anna Karenina. The Modern Language Review 52 (1957): 36375.
Subiotto, Frances M. The Ghost in Effi Briest. Forum for Modern Language Studies 21 (1985): 13750.
Swales, Erika. Private Mythologies and Public Unease: On Fontanes Effi Briest. The Modern Language Review 75 (1980): 11423.
Tolstoj, Lev Nikolaevi . Polnoe sobranie soinenij. 20 vols. Ed. P.I. Birjukova. Moscow: Sytina, 1913.
Utz, Peter. Effi Briest, der Chinese und der Imperialismus. Zeitschrift fr deutsche Philologie 103 (1984): 21225.
Weikart, Richard. Progess through Racial Extermination: Social Darwinism, Eugenics,and Pacifism in Germany, 18601918. German Studies Review 26 (2003): 27394.
Wippich, Rolf- Harald. Japan- enthusiasm in Wilhelmine Germany: The Case of the Sino- Japanese War, 189445. Japanese- German Relations, 18941945: War, Diplomacy,and Public Opinion. Eds. Christian W. Spang and Rolf- Harald Wippich. London: Routledge, 2006. 6179.
Zimmermann, Gisela. The Civil Servant as Educator: Effi Briest and Anna Karenina.
The Modern Language Review 90 (1995): 81729.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, contribute to the chemical industry in terms of their applications and market trends, and what are the key production methods and thermodynamic challenges associated with their synthesis, particularly in relation to temperature, pressure, and alkane chain length effects?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X20211200

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.90%

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 