I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Recent progress in synergistic catalysis over heterometallic nanoparticles Heterometallic nanoparticles (NPs) have been emerging as a type of important catalyst. Bimetallic NPs with alloyed and coreshell structures have higher activities than monometallic counterparts in catalysis due to the synergistic effects between the two metals. Compared to the straightforward synthesis of bimetallic alloy NPs, the preparation strategies for bimetallic coreshell NPs are flexible and diversified. In addition, synergistic catalysis over trimetallic and multimetallic NPs has also received considerable interest in recent years. In this feature article, we provide an overview of the recent developments of heterometallic NPs for improved catalytic performance.
Hai-Long Jiang Hai-Long Jiang was born in Anhui, P. R. China in 1981. He graduated from Anhui Normal University (2003) and obtained his PhD degree in inorganic chemistry from Fujian Institute of Research on the Structure of Matter, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) in 2008 under the supervision of Prof. Jiang-Gao Mao. He then joined Prof. Qiang Xu's group at AIST as a postdoctoral fellow and became a JSPS (Japan Society for the Promotion of Science) fellow in 2009. He is currently interested in the development of porous materials and nanostructured materials for applications in catalysis, separation, sensing and hydrogen storage.Qiang Xu Qiang Xu received his PhD degree in physical chemistry in 1994 at Osaka University, Japan. After one year working as a postdoctoral fellow at Osaka University, he started his career as a Research Scientist at Osaka National Research Institute in 1995. Currently, he is a Senior Research Scientist at National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST, Japan), adjunct professor at Kobe University, and fellow of Royal Society of Chemistry (FRSC). His research interests include porous materials and nanostructured materials and related functional applications, especially for clean energy. He has published more than 200 papers in refereed journals.
1. Introduction
Metallic nanoparticles (NPs) or clusters, aggregates of several to millions atoms, have been emerging as a new type of important functional material.1 They exhibit distinct properties (optical, electronic, magnetic, and so on) from those of individual atoms or their bulk counterparts due to the quantum-size and surface effects. More importantly, the properties are usually size- and structure-dependent, which have attracted tremendous research attention from either basic science or application viewpoints during the last two decades.29 Heterometallic NPs composed of two or more metal elements with various nanostructures (alloy/intermetallics, coreshell, heterostructure, etc.) via different synthesis approaches have presented improved physical and chemical properties compared to their monometallic NPs in many fields, especially in catalysis.10,11 Since the properties of the catalyst surfaces are closely correlated with the catalytic activities, the precise modification of the catalyst surface by introducing another component or changing the morphology could facilitate the controlled tuning of the catalytic properties. In addition, for coreshell structured heterometallic NPs with the same shell composition, their catalytic activity can also be changed with the core metal due to the so-called ligand effect. Therefore, the catalytic activity in catalysis can be well-tuned by combining two or more metals with various nanostructures. First principles studies have indicated the synergistic effect on the performance of heterometallic nanocatalysts is subject to surface electronic states, which are greatly altered by the change of catalysts for geometric parameters, particularly related to local strain and effective atomic coordination number at the surface.1214 In recent years, great progress has been made and many examples have been reported in the preparation and synergistic catalysis of heterometallic NPs with the great efforts of researchers all over the world. In this feature article, we provide an overview of the recent developments of synergistic catalysis over experimental heterometallic NPs mostly based on the following three aspects: synergistic catalysis over bimetallic alloy NPs, preparation and synergistic catalytic effects of bimetallic coreshell NPs, as well as trimetallic and multimetallic NPs. Due to the large amount of reports on bi-/multi-metallic NPs and journal space limitations, we have only focused on experimental studies for the heterometallic NPs with catalytic synergy in the last 56 years. It should be noted here that some catalysts have not been defined to be alloyed or coreshell nanostructures, which we have also reviewed and marked with undefined structure due to the demonstrated synergistic catalysis between the metal species. In the last section, we will briefly discuss the current results progress, expected improvements and future outlook in this research area.
2. Synergistic catalysis over bimetallic alloy NPs
The chemical and physical properties of alloy NPs can be well tuned by varying the size, composition and atomic ordering. Generally speaking, alloy materials have distinct binding properties with reactants in contrast to those for monometallic metal catalysts. The strong metalmetal interactions tune the bonding between the catalyst surfaces and the reactants, where the extra stabilization of the transition state on the alloy catalysts in comparison to the corresponding interaction on the monometallic catalyst surface is an additional benefit. Usually, impregnation/co-reduction with a relatively strong reducing agent can be used for the preparation of bimetallic alloy NPs. The method is used in the synthesis of monometallic NPs but two metal precursors are co-introduced for bimetallic NPs. We classify and discuss the synergistic catalysis over plentiful nanoalloys according to their compositions as follows.
2.1 Alloy NPs involving two noble metals
Catalysis over AuPd alloy NPs has received the most attention among noble metal nanoalloys. Prati, Su and coworkers have systematically studied the selective oxidation catalysis over AuPd NPs obtained by a two-step procedure.1520 The bimetallic AuM/C (M = Pd, Pt) catalyst (undefined AuM structure) showed strong synergistic effect for liquid-phase oxidation of d-sorbitol in water using oxygen as oxidant, which produced not only a significant increase of reaction rate but also a system more resistant to oxygen poisoning allowing it to work under a moderate pressure.15 In order to avoid the segregation of metal, the authors first immobilized a preformed Au sol (using BH4 as reductant) on activated carbon (AC), and then the Pd sol was generated in the presence of Au/AC using H2 as the second reducing agent instead of NaBH4 which usually led to Pd segregation. Slowing down the reduction rate of the Pd salt was regarded as the key to avoid Pd segregation or homogenous nucleation. Single phase bimetallic AuPd/AC showed high activity attributed to the synergistic effect between Au and Pd in the selective liquid-phase oxidation of glycerol towards glycerate using oxygen as the oxidant (Fig. 1). The strong synergistic effect was present in a large range of Au/Pd ratio, being maximized for the Au90Pd10 composition. In addition, the AuPd/AC catalyst exhibited a prolonged catalyst life although a small, inhomogeneous Pd leaching could be observed.1619 The AuPd alloys supported on AC with AuPd compositions ranging from 90:10 to 60:40 are also very active in the liquid-phase oxidation of alcohols such as benzylic alcohol, cinnamyl alcohol, octenol and octanol, confirming the high synergistic effect of the alloy. The addition of a base increases the activity of all catalysts with various Au/Pd ratios, and the extent of the enhancement is dependent on the nature of the alcohol to be oxidized and on the Au/Pd ratio.20 Hutchings and coworkers have prepared AuPd alloy NPs with different methods which showed pronounced synergistic effects in redox catalysis.2123 By applying ZSM-5, zeolite β, zeolite Y, TS-1 and TiO2 as supports for Au and AuPd NPs toward solvent-free oxidation of benzyl alcohol with oxygen, it was found that zeolite β was the best support for Au catalysts and the conversions were comparable to or better than those with TiO2. However, the selectivities observed with the acidic zeolites were lower than those with the non-acidic TS-1 and TiO2. The AuPd/zeolite-Y showed improved activity without significantly affecting the selectivity compared to the Au and Pd catalysts.21 For the same reaction, the bimetallic AuPd NPs supported on CeO2 was considerably more active than monometallic catalysts containing Au or Pd only. They adopted an antisolvent precipitation technique using supercritical CO2 to prepare CeO2 support for AuPd NPs, which was much more active than that prepared using a CeO2 support derived from the acetate through a non-supercritical synthesis route.22 The zeolite supported AuPd catalysts gave the highest activity for direct synthesis of hydrogen peroxide from H2 and O2 compared to supported Au, AuRu, AuRh and even AuPt catalysts prepared using a similar impregnation method.23 Xing and coworkers have demonstrated that AuPd NPs have a unique characteristic to catalyze the decomposition of liquid formic acid for dramatically and steadily evolving high-quality hydrogen at convenient temperature, the steady reaction activity of which is the highest among the investigated four catalysts (Pd/C, PdM/C, M = Cu, Ag, Au).24 Recently, they have prepared an AuPd@Au coreshell nanostructure with AuPd alloy as the core supported on carbon. The catalyst possesses superior and stable activity as well as high selectivity at low temperature in hydrogen generation from formic acid decomposition. The reforming gas from formic acid decomposition contains only 30 ppm of CO and can be used directly in fuel cells. In contrast, there is a distinct deactivation effect after only 10 min for the Pd/C catalyst probably due to the formation of poisoning intermediates on the catalyst surface as the decomposition reaction goes on, although it is active for the decomposition reaction at the beginning. For Au/C catalyst, the catalytic activity is very low although the deactivation phenomenon was not observed.25 Bimetallic PdAu alloy and coreshell NPs have been encapsulated into dendrimers, respectively by simultaneous and sequential metal loading/reduction. The catalytic hydrogenation of allyl alcohol was significantly enhanced in the presence of the alloy and coreshell PdAu NPs as compared to mixtures of monometallic NPs.26 PVP-stabilized AuPd NPs (undefined AuPd structure) have been examined as catalysts for the oxidation of benzyl alcohol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2-buten-1-ol and 1,4-butanediol in aqueous solution under mild conditions. It was found that AuPd NPs with Au/Pd ratio of 1:3 had higher catalytic activities than Au, Pd and other bimetallic AuPd NPs, and that the selectivities towards specific products can also be tuned using bimetallic NPs.27Silicon nanowires (Si NWs) were also used for supporting AuPd NPs (undefined AuPd structure) and the resultant AuPd/Si NWs exhibited the mutual promotional effect for the degradation of p-nitroaniline (p-NA) compared to Au/Si NWs and Pd/Si NWs. The synergistic effect factor was calculated as 2.35 and the AuPd/Si NW catalysts can be recycled and the catalytic rate only decreased by 20% after recycling for 4 times.28 To maximize the interactions between the metallic precursor(s) and the activated carbon support in aqueous solution, Hermans et al. have studied the adsorption of Au and Pd species on activated carbon SX PLUS in order to prepare AuPd/C catalysts. The AuPd/C catalysts have been employed for the selective oxidation of glucose and exhibited higher activity than their monometallic counterparts, indicating a synergistic effect between the two metals.29 A facile and fast microwave irradiation (MWI) method has been developed to prepare selected nanoalloys supported on ceria NPs for CO oxidation. The method allowed the passivation of the nanocrystals by using a mixture of oleylamine and oleic acid. High activity and thermal stability were observed for the nanoalloys according to the order CuPd > CuRh > AuPd > AuRh > PtRh > PdRh > AuPt.30 The Pd NPs were immobilized on highly cross-linked polymer microspheres (PDVB-IL) without further surface modification of the polymer support. The loaded Pd NPs were nearly monodispersed and had high catalytic activity for cyclohexene hydrogenation reaction. Furthermore, the immobilized Pd NPs can be used as the seeds to prepare PDVB-IL-Pd/Au composites (undefined AuPd structure) by a seeding growth method. The Pd and Au in the composites have excellent synergy for catalyzing hydrogenation of cyclohexene.31 Fig. 1 Selective oxidation of glycerol with mono and bimetallic catalysts. Reaction conditions: water 10 ml, 0.3 M glycerol, glycerol/M = 3000, NaOH/glycerol = 4, T = 50 C, PO2 = 3 atm. Inset: TEM image of fresh 1 wt% PdAu/AC catalyst. Scale bar: 20 nm. Adapted with permission from ref. 17. Copyright 2007, Elsevier.
Mou, Zhang and colleagues have a series of reports on synergistic effect of bimetallic AuAg alloy nanocatalysts in CO oxidation.3236 The AuAg alloy NPs supported on mesoporous aluminosilicate, designated as AuAg@MCM, were prepared by one-pot synthesis using CTAB as both a stabilizing agent for NPs and a template for the formation of the mesoporous structure. The AuAg alloy NPs have larger particle sizes (>30 nm) whereas they exhibited much higher catalytic activity than Au NPs (6.7 nm) in CO oxidation, which reveals that the size effect is not a critical factor whereas Ag is believed to play a key role in the activation of oxygen. The activity varies with the Au/Ag molar ratios and attains the best conversion when Au/Ag is 3:1. The reaction rate can reach 8.7 × 106 mol gcat1s1 at an Au/Ag molar ratio of 3/1 even at a low temperature of 250 K. The strong synergism in the co-adsorption of CO and O2 on AuAg NPs was regarded as the crucial factor for the observed synergetic effect in catalysis.3234 Afterwards, they used silane APTS [H2N(CH2)3Si(OMe)3] to functionalize the surface of mesoporous silica before adsorbing the gold precursor AuCl4 and silver precursor AgNO3 to afford AuAg bimetallic NPs inside the nanochannels after reduction. As compared with the previously reported AuAg@MCM prepared by a one-pot procedure, 46 nm bimetallic AuAg NPs were obtained via this two-step method. The small AuAg NPs exhibited higher activity in catalysis in the low-temperature CO oxidation with high stability and the catalyst was resistant to moisture over a long storage time. In addition, a synergetic effect in relative AuAg composition was also found.35 In another report, they also adopted a two-step approach to prepare bimetallic AuAg NPs (Fig. 2). The Au NPs were first formed on amino-functionalized silica or alumina support, and then specific NPs were obtained with AuAg alloy core and Ag shell structure upon Ag+adsorption and reduction by NaBH4. The obtained NPs were found to be highly thermally stable, and their sizes remain substantially unchanged (3 nm) even upon calcination in air at 500 C. After the final reduction with H2, randomly distributed AuAg alloy NPs were obtained, which were very active toward CO catalytic oxidation, even superior to Au/TiO2. The catalytic activities of AuAg/SiO2 nanocomposites were dependent on Au/Ag ratio and much higher than Au/SiO2 and Ag/SiO2catalysts.36 Fig. 2 Schematic illustration of preparation procedure for SiO2 supported AuAg alloy NPs and HRTEM image as well as CO oxidation conversion of AuAg/SiO2 (Au/Ag = 1/1). Gold NPs are formed on amino-functionalized silica, followed by Ag+adsorption. Upon reduction of Ag+ by NaBH4, NPs with a AuAg alloy core and a Ag shell are formed. These bimetallic NPs are highly stable up to 500 C and further treatment via H2reduction results in a randomly distributed AuAg alloy, which is highly active for CO oxidation. Reproduced with permission from ref. 36. Copyright 2009, American Chemical Society.
Sun et al. have grown Ag nanoplates on GaAs substrates, where Ag was easily oxidized in ambient environments, resulting in the limitation of the potential applications of the nanoplates. They converted the Ag nanoplates on GaAs substrates into chemically stable nanoplates made of AuAg alloys. As a result, the alloy nanoplates retained the out-of-substrate orientation and highly exposed their surfaces to surrounding solutions, which were more resistant to oxidation and highly efficient for catalyzing the reduction of 4-nitrophenol with NaBH4.37 Wang et al. reported a one-pot synthesis of monodisperse AuAg alloy NPs with controlled compositions by simultaneous reduction of Au and Ag precursors in an organic solution with oleylamine as surfactant. The oleylamine was readily removed, leaving AuAg NPs that were catalytically active for CO oxidation. The composition-dependent catalytic activities revealed that the alloy NPs supported on fumed SiO2 with Au/Ag ratio close to 1/1 had the highest activity in the CO oxidation.38 Currently, polymer electrolyte membrane (PEM) fuel cells are mostly based on expensive Pt-based electrocatalysts. Due to the limited supply of Pt and its susceptibility to poisoning by oxidation products, research endeavors have been focused on reducing or eliminating the Pt in fuel cell catalysts and increasing the resistance to poisoning. Lowering the quantity of Pt by alloying with another affordable metal (such as Au, Ru, Pd, etc.) is an alternative approach to solve this difficulty.3945 Tang et al. have investigated the electrocatalytic activity of electrochemically synthesized AuPt clusters deposited on fluorinated tin oxide (FTO) and carbon disk substrates in acidic and alkaline electrolytes. Both methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) results showed that Pt could be partially substituted by Au to achieve higher resistance to poisoning without affecting the activity in acid electrolyte, while a significant overall improvement in performance was observed in alkaline environment, owing to a synergistic effect between Au and Pt.40 The Au-modified Pt and Pt-modified Au electrodes were constructed and the surfaces were modified by the electrodeposition of sub-monolayers. Both types of PtAu surfaces were found to be more active for formic acid oxidation compared to bare Pt, showing the maximum activity at Pt fraction between 0.15 and 0.25 with the enhancement factor of more than two orders of magnitude.41 Recently, Zhang et al. have prepared AuPt alloy NPs on graphene with uniform dispersion via a polyelectrolyte-assisted process. The resultant AuPt/graphene exhibited higher electrocatalytic activity and stability than AuPt/C and commercial Etek-Pt/C catalysts for formic acid oxidation.43 The carbon supported PtRu alloy NPs have been produced with poly(amidoamine) dendrimers (PAMAM) as a protective ligand in solution, which hinders particle sintering during activation at high temperature in H2, and promotes the formation of highly disperse, bimetallic PtRu NPs. It has been found that the catalyst with Pt/Ru ratio of 1:1 gave the best performance for MOR among Ru contents from 1 to 50 mol%.44 The PtxPd1x/C nanocatalysts with various Pt/Pd atomic ratios (x = 0.25, 0.5, 0.75) have been synthesized by using a borohydride-reduction method. Rotating-disk electrode measurements revealed that the Pt3Pd1/C nanocatalyst had a synergistic effect on the ORR, showing 50% enhancement, and an antagonistic effect on the MOR, showing 90% reduction, compared to commercial JM 20 Pt/C on a mass basis. It was found that the ORR activity strongly depended on the Ptd-band vacancies and extent of alloying. A decrease in Ptd-band vacancy facilitates OO scission, and thus enhances the ORR activity.45 Nilekar et al. have deposited the Pt monolayers on different late-transition metals (Au, Pd, Ir, Rh, Ru), in which a Pd-supported Pt monolayer showed the highest ORR activity. Then they decreased the amount of Pt by replacing part of the Pt monolayer with a third late-transition metal (Au, Pd, Ir, Rh, Ru, Re, or Os). Several of these mixed Pt monolayers deposited on Pd single crystals or on carbon-supported Pd NPs exhibited up to a 20-fold increase in ORR activity on a Pt-mass basis compared to conventional all-Pt electrocatalysts. DFT calculations showed that their superior activity originated from the interaction between the Pt monolayer and the Pd substrate and from a reduced OH coverage on Pt sites, the result of enhanced destabilization of PtOH induced by the oxygenated third metal.46 Liu and coworkers have prepared bimetallic AuPt/TiO2 for the efficient conversion of glycerol to lactic acid in high yields in alkaline aqueous solutions, which proceeds through glyceraldehyde and dihydroxyacetone intermediates formed from glycerol oxidative dehydrogenation as rate-determining step. Their results have demonstrated that the bimetallic AuPt/TiO2catalysts are stable and recyclable under the reaction conditions, which are in sharp contrast to the monometallic Au and Pt catalysts that showed dramatic decreases in their activities (Fig. 3).47 Prati et al. have examined the catalytic activities of single-phase AuPd and AuPt on carbon supports for liquid-phase oxidation of glycerol and n-octanol. The synergistic catalytic effect between Au and Pt/Pd was proved to be considerable.48 Bimetallic PtM (M = Au, Cu, Ni) alloy NPs supported on γ-Fe2O3 were synthesized by a radiolytic method by employing a 4.8 MeV electron beam to reduce aqueous ions without using any surfactant, organic solvent or stabilizer at room temperature. All the PtM/γ-Fe2O3 nanocomposites exhibited activities higher than those of Pt/γ-Fe2O3catalysts in the CO oxidation. The correlation between the atomic structures and the catalytic activities indicated that the random alloy structure enhanced the activity.49Atomic layer deposition (ALD) was used to deposit RuPt NPs with size of 1.2 nm supported on spherical alumina. Methanol decomposition reaction has confirmed the RuPt interaction and showed improved methanol conversion over the bimetallic NPs compared to the catalyst comprised of a mixture of pure Pt and Ru NPs with similar loading, revealing the synergistic catalysis between Pt and Ru in the alloy NPs.50 Yoon et al. have studied carbon nanotube (CNT) supported metallic NPs for hydrogenation of neat benzene and its derivatives (toluene, 1-phenyl-1-cyclohexane) at room temperature without solvent, which cannot be achieved by commercially available carbon-based metal catalysts. The catalytic activity of the CNT-supported metallic NPs followed the order PdRh > Pt > Rh > Au > Pd. The PdRh bimetallic NP catalyst showed a strong positive synergistic effect compared to the individual single-component metal NP catalysts in the hydrogenation reaction.51 Cao and Veser have synthesized PtRh nanocatalysts with exceptional thermal stability via a microemulsion-mediated solgel process. The PtRh NPs retained their diameter at 4 nm at calcination temperatures of up to 850 C (Fig. 4a). This thermal stability of these NPs depends critically on the Pt/Rh ratio, having increased thermal stability with higher Rh content. The high thermal stability of PtRh NPs has been considered to be responsible for their excellent catalytic performances over methane combustion. In contrast to the monometallic catalysts, the bimetallic PtRhBHA (BHA: barium hexa-aluminate) sample not only showed enhanced activity with ignition of the CH4/air stream at 450 C and full CH4 conversion around 550 C (50100 C lower than those of the other samples, Fig. 4b); most importantly, it was stable over successive ignitionextinction cycles. Therefore, alloying Pt with Rh in the bimetallic PtRhBHA catalyst allowed combination of the high activity of Pt with the thermal stability of Rh, resulting in a single nanostructured catalyst with exceptional stability and activity.52 Likewise, Pt is prone to agglomeration at elevated temperatures, resulting in a decrease in the hydrogen yield, although it has long been regarded as an efficient catalyst for decomposition of hydrogen iodide (HI), one of the key reactions in the sulfuriodine (SI) thermochemical water splitting promising for massive hydrogen production. Studies have demonstrated that the synergistic effect of Pt and Ir with respect to HI decomposition was confirmed by the fact that the bimetallic PtIr/C catalyst with 1 wt% and 0.77 wt%, respectively for Pt and Ir loadings showed much higher catalytic activity and thermostability compared with Pt/C and Ir/C catalysts.53 Fig. 3 (a) TEM image of AuPt/TiO2 (Au/Pt = 1:1) before catalytic reaction. Inset: HRTEM image with marked lattice distance. (b) Yields of lactic acid after five reaction cycles at 363 K on Au/TiO2, Pt/TiO2, and AuPt/TiO2 (Au/Pt = 1:1, 2.5 × 103 mmol metal, 0.22 mol L1glycerol in H2O, NaOH/glycerol = 4:1 (mole ratio), 1 atm O2). Adapted with permission from ref. 47. Copyright 2010, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA.
Fig. 4 (a) TEM image for PtRhBHA calcined in air at 850 C. (b) Methane conversion vs. reactor temperature in catalyticmethane oxidation with three different BHA-based catalysts. Adapted with permission from ref. 52. Copyright 2010, Nature Publishing Group.
Hollow AgPd alloy NPs were prepared by a galvanic displacement reaction, in which a small amount of Pd(NO3)2 was allowed to react with pre-synthesized Ag NPs as templates. The resultant hollow AgPd NPs showed better catalytic activities than monometallic Ag and Pd NPs for electroless copper deposition (ECD) and the activities can be controlled by tuning their alloy ratios in a suitable manner.54 It was reported that bimetallic AgRh/Al2O3catalyst (undefined AgRh structure) exhibited higher activity (for both nitrous oxide removal and hydrocarbonoxidation) than the monometallic counterparts for nitrous oxide (N2O) reduction with methane and propene in the presence of oxygen (5%), due to the synergistic effect between Ag and Rh.55 Afterwards, an ultrasound-assisted membrane reduction (UAMR) method was developed to construct highly dispersed Rh/γ-Al2O3 and bimetallic AuRh/γ-Al2O3catalysts. The synergistic effect of the bimetallic system was found to improve the performance of selective catalytic reduction of NO and reduce the cost for Pt group metal-based catalysts. The AuRh/γ-Al2O3 (with alloy or coreshell structured AuRh NPs) catalyst with 0.33 wt% Au and 0.17 wt% Rh (MRh/MAu = 1:1) loadings exhibited higher propylene and NO conversions than 0.5 wt% Rh/γ-Al2O3catalyst and stronger NO adsorption capability and formation of surface nitrates have been confirmed over AuRh/γ-Al2O3catalysts in NO-TPD experiments.56
2.2 Alloy NPs combining noble and non-noble metals
Many reports have indicated that alloying Pt with another non-noble metal can not only lower the cost but also effectively improve the catalytic properties of Pt NPs.49,5770 Bimetallic PtNi NPs (undefined PtNi structure) containing 0.5 wt% Pt and 20 wt% Ni have been prepared on activated carbon cloth (ACC) support for dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene. The synergistic effect between Pt and Ni was obvious: the hydrogen production was enhanced by ca. 1.5 times as compared to the 20 wt% Ni-only catalyst and ca. 60 times higher hydrogen production rates as compared to 0.5 wt% Pt catalyst.57 The PtNi/HBEA (undefined PtNi structure) catalyst prepared by ion exchange with simultaneous addition of Pt and Ni also showed the higher conversion and selectivity than Pt and Ni/HBEA in the reaction of n-hexane hydroisomerization, revealing the synergistic effect.58Silica supported PtNi alloy NPs with a Pt/Ni ratio of 11/9 synthesized by the co-impregnation technique were more active than both pure monometallic catalysts in the catalytic hydrogenation of benzene. Surface segregation of Pt on the alloys as proven by XPS was regarded to contribute to this enhanced activity. However, PtNi/SiO2 prepared via a step-impregnated method showed lower catalytic reactivity than a pure Pt catalyst.59 Our group has prepared PtNi bimetallic nanocatalysts with a Pt content as low as 7 mol% by the co-reduction of the corresponding metal chlorides which exhibited excellent catalytic activity to the decomposition of hydrous hydrazine, producing hydrogen with a 100% selectivity at room temperature, whereas the corresponding single-component Ni and Pt counterparts were totally inactive for this reaction (Fig. 5).60Catalytic non-oxidative methane transformations into higher hydrocarbons over bimetallic PtCo NPs (undefined structure) supported on Al2O3 and NaY in a flow system have been investigated. The amount of C2+ products formed over the bimetallic catalyst were higher than that over the monometallic samples in the two-step process, with temperature ranging from 523 to 673 K and 1 bar pressure. The synergy in the bimetallic system can be explained by the enhanced reducibility of cobalt, increased metal surface (higher dispersion) and the cooperation of two types of active components (Co facilitates the chain-growth of partially dehydrogenated species produced on Pt in PtCo bimetallic NPs).63 Ko et al. have reported that a PtCo bimetallic catalyst supported on yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ) was highly efficient for preferential CO oxidation (PROX) in a H2-rich gas stream even with a small amount of Pt (0.5 wt%) at temperatures below 423 K. By optimizing the calcination and reduction pre-treatment conditions for PtCo/YSZ, the CO concentration can be decreased below 10 ppm in the temperature range of 380423 K.64 Highly dispersed PtCu nanocrystals with 2 nm size were supported on Mg3Si2O5(OH)4nanotubes or CeO2, both of which showed enhanced performances compared to pure noble metal nanocrystals with similar sizes in the CO oxidation.66 The combination of Pt and Sn metals, giving PtSn bimetallic NPs supported on mesoporous carbon, have exhibited considerably higher conversion and selectivity in both the hydrogenation reaction of cinnamaldehyde to cinnamyl alcohol and the dehydrogenation reaction of propane to propylene, for the latter of which the presence of Sn resulting in higher Pt dispersion and weaker adsorption affinity of hydrocarbons on the surface Pt sites in PtSn NPs may be responsible for the superior activity, selectivity and stability.67,68 Nazar and coworkers have described a novel, highly effective methodology for impregnating noble metal Pt and bimetallic PtBi NPs into ordered mesoporous carbon (OMC) voids with precisely controlled particle size (less than 3.5 nm in diameter) and ultrahigh dispersion. The method is applicable to the preparation of other catalysts, such as Pt, Ru, Rh and Pd. The OMC-supported PtBi nanocrystallites between 2 and 3.5 nm were investigated as catalysts for formic acid electrooxidation. They displayed the same absence of CO poisoning as bulk intermetallic phases. The 3 nm PtBi/OMC catalyst exhibited the highest mass activity for formic acid oxidation reported to date, under the same conditions, and over double that of PtAu. The excellent catalytic properties can be attributed to the successful catalyst preparation and the faithful occurrence of the ensemble effect at the nanoscale level.70 Fig. 5 Selectivities for hydrogen generation by the decomposition of hydrazine in aqueous solution (0.5 M) catalyzed by Ni, Pt, and Ni1xPtx (x = 0.030.74) nanocatalysts at room temperature (catalyst = 0.017 g; N2H4·H2O = 0.1 mL). The inset TEM image showing Ni0.93Pt0.07 nanocatalyst after being used for the catalytic reaction. Reproduced with permission from ref. 60. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society.
There are a couple of reports on synergistic catalytic effects over AuCu alloy NPs. Liu et al. have prepared AuCu alloy NPs with sizes of 3 nm and a wide range of Au/Cu ratios on SBA-15 and silica gel supports and the catalysts on both supports with variational Au/Cu ratios showed superior CO oxidation activity to a monometallic Au catalyst, demonstrating the synergy between Au and Cu.72,73 The AuCu NPs in the confined space of SBA-15 showed much better performance than monometallic NPs in catalyzing CO oxidation even with the rich presence of H2. The AuCu/SiO2catalyst with an Au/Cu ratio of 20/1 gave the highest activity at room temperature while its activity showed the deepest valley with increasing reaction temperature; with an Au/Cu ratio of 3/1, it exhibited the best performance for PROX reaction. Hutchings and coworkers carefully reviewed the preparation methods, characterization techniques, theoretical studies and catalytic applications (in CO oxidation, propene epoxidation and benzyl alcoholoxidation) of AuCu alloy NPs in 2009.74 Therefore, we will not give more details on AuCu nanocatalysts herein. Our group synthesized AuNi NPs (undefined structure) of 34 nm diameter embedded in SiO2 nanospheres of around 15 nm prepared in a reversed-micelle system, and by in situreduction in an aqueous solution of NaBH4/NH3BH3. Compared with monometallic Au@SiO2 and Ni@SiO2, the as-synthesized AuNi@SiO2catalyst showed higher catalytic activity and better durability in the hydrolysis of NH3BH3, a promising reaction for chemical hydrogen storage and also an excellent test reaction for catalysis of nanomaterials,7577 generating a nearly stoichiometric amount of H2 (Fig. 6). During the generation of H2, the synergistic effect between Au and Ni was apparent: the Ni species stabilized the Au NPs and the existence of Au species improved the catalytic activity and durability of the Ni NPs.78Catalytic gas-phase hydrodechlorination (HDC) of 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) has been investigated over Ni/Al2O3 and Au/Al2O3 prepared by impregnation, and AuNi/Al2O3 (undefined AuNi structure) prepared by reductive deposition of Au onto Ni. The initial HDC performance converged for both Ni/Al2O3 and AuNi/Al2O3 but diverged with time on-stream as Ni/Al2O3 exhibited continual deactivation, while the combination of reaction with thermal treatment elevated the HDC performance of AuNi/Al2O3. The enhancement of HDC efficiency was assumed to be in correlation with the surface restructuring, which leads to AuNi clusters with a narrower (or more uniform) NiAu composition. A surface NiAu synergism was proposed whereby the Au component served to activate the CCl bond(s) with subsequent attack from reactive hydrogen dissociated at the Ni centers.79 Fig. 6 Hydrogen generation by the hydrolysis of NH3BH3 (0.152 M, 5 mL) in the presence of the as-synthesized Ni@SiO2, Au@SiO2 and AuNi@SiO2catalysts (Au/AB = 0.019, Ni/AB = 0.065) at 18 C in air (inset: TEM image of the as-synthesized AuNi@SiO2 nanospheres). Reproduced from ref. 78 with permission. Copyright 2010, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA.
The γ-Al2O3 supported AgCu NPs (undefined structure) were developed to catalyze glycerol to propanediols and showed a considerable synergistic effect, had superior activity and did not need a reduction pretreatment compared to the commercial copper chromite catalyst. It was revealed that the addition of Ag not only resulted in an in situreduction of CuO, but also improved the dispersion of the Cu species on the support. The AgCu/Al2O3catalyst with optimal amounts of Cu and Ag showed a near 100% selectivity to propanediols with a glycerol conversion of about 27% under mild reaction conditions (200 C, 1.5 MPa initial H2 pressure, 10 h, (Cu + Ag)/glycerol molar ratio of 3/100).80 A bimetallic AgCo/CeO2catalyst was prepared for simultaneous catalytic removal of NO and CO in the absence or presence of O2. The addition of Ag on CeO2 greatly improved the catalytic activities in the lower temperature regions (300 C), and the introduction of Co on CeO2 increased the activities at higher temperatures (250 C). The bimetallic AgCo/CeO2catalyst combined the advantages of the corresponding individual metal supported catalysts and showed superior activity due to the synergetic effect. NO and CO could be completely removed in the range of 200600 C at a very high space velocity of 1.2 × 105 h1. No deactivation was observed over 4%Ag0.4%Co/CeO2catalyst even after 50 h test.81 The metastable alloyed AgNi/SiO2catalysts (Ni + Ag = 1 wt%) were prepared by aqueous chemical reduction with hydrazineviaprecipitation or impregnation methods for gas-phase hydrogenation of benzene. The synergistic effect between Ni and Ag led to improvement of dispersion and reactivity of Ni in the presence of Ag for precipitated catalysts although Ag was inactive in the reaction.82 Our group synthesized Rh4Ni alloyed nanocatalysts with a particle size of 3 nm by alloying Rh and Ni using a co-reduction process in the presence of hexadecyltrimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB). A synergistic effect of Rh and Ni in the bimetallic Rh4Ni nanocatalyst (Rh/Ni ratio = 4:1) was observed, over which a 100% selectivity for hydrogen generation by complete decomposition of hydrous hydrazine was achieved at room temperature.83 Afterwards, a surfactant stabilized highly active bimetallic Ni0.95Ir0.05 alloy nanocatalyst was prepared by alloying Ir with Ni, which also exhibited 100% H2 selectivity for complete decomposition of hydrous hydrazine at room temperature. Notably, the corresponding monometallic counterparts has poor H2 selectivity (7% H2 selectivity, Ir NPs; inactive, Ni NPs), highlighting the synergy in catalysis between Ir and Ni species.84 In addition, supported bimetallic RuM (M = Ni, Co, Fe) and PdCo nanocatalysts have exhibited synergistic performances in the respective catalytic reactions.8588
2.3 Alloy NPs involving two non-noble metals
Compared to bimetallic catalysts with noble metals, non-noble metal-based bimetallic NPs were much less studied, in which CuNi catalysts have attracted the most interests.8993 Somorjai and coworkers have synthesized near-monodisperse Ni1xCux (x = 0.20.8) bimetallic nanocrystals by a one-pot thermolysis approach in oleylamine/1-octadecene, using metal acetylacetonates as precursors. The bimetallic nanocrystals deposited on silicon wafer displayed a catalytic synergistic effect in the hydrolysis of NaBH4 to generate H2 at x = 0.5 in a strongly basic medium. The Ni0.5Cu0.5nanocrystals showed the lowest activation energy and exhibited the highest H2 generation rate at 298 K.89 Bimetallic CuNi alloy NPs dispersed homogeneously on multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT), graphite oxide (GO) and activated carbon (AC) have been synthesized and all these catalysts displayed excellent catalytic activity for the direct synthesis of dimethyl carbonate (DMC) from CH3OH and CO2.9092 The CuNi/MWCNT catalyst exhibited a conversion of CH3OH higher than 4.3% and a selectivity of DMC higher than 85.0% under the optimal catalytic conditions of 120 C and around 1.2 MPa. The high catalytic activity of CuNi NPs could be attributed to the synergetic effects between Cu and Ni, CuNi alloy in the activation of CH3OH and CO2, the unique structure of MWCNTs and the interaction between the metal NPs and the support. For CuNi/GO catalyst, the highest CH3OH conversion of 10.12% and the DMC selectivity of 90.2% were achieved under the optimal catalytic reaction conditions of 105 C and 1.2 MPa. Christensen and coworkers have prepared a series of mono- and bi-metallic FeNi catalysts supported on MgAl2O4 (spinel) and Al2O3 (alumina) and investigated their CO methanation activities. Bimetallic catalysts Fe25Ni75 and Fe50Ni50 showed significantly higher activities and in some cases also higher selectivities to methane in comparison with the traditional monometallic Ni and Fe catalysts. For the spinel support, the catalyst Fe25Ni75 was the most active at low metal loadings. With increasing metal concentrations, the maximum methanation activity was shifted to Fe50Ni50 on both spinel and alumina supports, and the maximum of the catalytic activity and the highest selectivity to methane were observed for the sample with 20 wt% total metal loading.94 The Fe1xNix (x = 0, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.7 and 1) nano-alloys have been in situ synthesized and used as catalysts for H2 generation from the aqueous NH3BH3 solution under ambient conditions. The prepared nano-alloys possess Pt-like high catalytic activity, especially for the specimen of Fe0.5Ni0.5, with which the hydrolysis of NH3BH3 could complete in only 2.2 min (Fe0.5Ni0.5/NH3BH3 = 0.12).95 Some reported bimetallic alloyed nanocatalysts (involving some NPs with undefined structure) with synergistic effects in respective catalytic reactions are summarized in Table 1.
Table 1 Synergistic effects in catalysis over bimetallic alloyed NPs (some NPs with undefined structure are also included) Catalyst NP size (nm) Catalytic reaction Ref.
AuM/AC (M = Pd, Pt) oxidation of d-sorbitol 15 AuPd/AC 3 oxidation of glycerol 1619 AuPd/AC 3 oxidation of alcohol 20 AuPd/zeolite-Y solvent-free oxidation of benzyl alcohol 21 AuPd/CeO2 solvent-free oxidation of benzyl alcohol 22 AuPd/zeolite direct synthesis of H2O2 from H2 and O2 23 AuPd/AC 4 H2 generation from formic acid 24 AuPd@Au/C 16 H2 generation from formic acid 25 AuPd@dendrimer 2 hydrogenation of allyl alcohol 26 AuPd 2.54.0 oxidation of alcohol 27 AuPd/Si NWs 15 degradation of p-nitroaniline 28 AuPd/C oxidation of glucose 29 AuM (M = Pd, Rh, Pt), RhM (M = Cu, Pt, Pd) CO oxidation 30 AuPd/polymer microspheres 89 hydrogenation of cyclohexane 31 AuAg@MCM 2050 CO oxidation 3234 AuAg@APTS-MCM 46 CO oxidation 35 AuAg/SiO2 3 CO oxidation 36 AuAg/GaAs substrate reduction of 4-nitrophenol 37 AuAg/SiO2 89 CO oxidation 38 AuPt/C 3 methanol electrooxidation 39 AuPt clusters on FTO substrates/carbon disks MeOH electrooxidation, oxygen reduction 40 Au modified Pt or Pt modified Au electrodes formic acidoxidation 41 AuPt 2 methanol electrooxidation 42 AuPt/graphene 3.3  0.2 formic acidoxidation 43 G4OHPtRu 35 methanol electrooxidation 44 PtPd/C 46 MeOH electrooxidation, oxygen reduction 45 Pt or PtM modified Pd (M = Au, Ir, Rh, Ru, Re) oxygen reduction reaction 46 AuPt/TiO2 2.73.8 aerobic oxidation of glycerol 47 AuM/C (M = Pd, Pt) 2.53.5 oxidation of glycerol and n-octanol 48 PtM/γ-Fe2O3 (M = Au, Cu, Ni) 23 CO oxidation 49 RuPt/Al2O3 1.2 methanoldecomposition 50 PdRh/CNT 4.6  1.0 hydrogenation of benzene 51 PtRhBHA 4 catalytic methane combustion 52 PtIr/C 5.4 decomposition of hydrogen iodide 53 hollow AgPd electroless copper deposition 54 AgRh/Al2O3 nitrous oxidereduction with CH4 and propene 55 AuRh/γ-Al2O3 37 reduction of NO by propylene 56 PtNi/ACC 9 dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene 57 PtNi/HBEA n-hexane hydroisomeriszation 58 PtNi/SiO2 2.5  0.7 hydrogenation of benzene 59 PtNi 5 decomposition of N2H4·H2O to H2 60 PtNi/γ-Al2O3 1.6 reduction of NO with H2 61 PtNi/CB CO oxidation 62 PtCo/NaY methane conversion to higher hydrocarbons 63 PtCo/YSZ 2.9  0.5 PROX in H2-rich gas stream 64 PtCo/CNT 15 hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde to cinnamyl alcohol 65 PtCu/silicate nanotube or CeO2 2 CO oxidation 66 PtSn/CX-18 hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde to cinnamyl alcohol 67 PtSn/SBA-15 10 dehydrogenation of propane to propylene 68 PtBi/C 40 oxygen reduction reaction 69 PtBi/OMC <3.5 HCOOH and MeOH electrooxidation 70 PtMo/γ-Al2O3 hydrodesulphurization (HDS) reaction 71 AuCu/SBA-15 3 CO oxidation 72 AuCu/SiO2 3.03.6 CO oxidation 73 AuNi@SiO2 34 dehydrogenation of aqueous NH3BH3 78 AuNi/Al2O3 130 hydrodechlorination of 2,4-dichlorophenol 79 AgCu/γ-Al2O3 hydrogenolysis of glycerol to propandediols 80 AgCo/CeO2 conversion of NO and CO to N2 and CO2 81 AgNi/SiO2 830 gas-phase hydrogenation of benzene 82 RhNi 3 decomposition of N2H4·H2O to H2 83 IrNi 5 decomposition of N2H4·H2O to H2 84 RuNi/SiO2 hydrodechlorination of 1,2-dichloroethane 85 RuFe/MgAl2O4 110 water-gas shift reaction 86 MCo/SiO2 (M = Rh, Ru) oxidative steam reforming of ethanol to H2 87 RuM/SiO2 (M = Co, Fe) NO-promoted N2O decomposition 88 NiCu/Si wafer 20 hydrolysis of NaBH4 to generate H2 89 CuNi/MWCNT 530 direct synthesis of dimethyl carbonate 90 CuNi/MWCNT 25 direct synthesis of dimethyl carbonate 91 CuNi/SiO2 25 acetylenehydrogenation 93 FeNi/MgAl2O4 and Al2O3 812 CO methanation 94 FeNi 3 dehydrogenation of aqueous NH3BH3 95
3. Synergistic catalysis over bimetallic coreshell NPs
Coreshell NPs are in the frontier of advanced materials chemistry among the various bimetallic NPs and are of great importance and interest owing to their physical and chemical properties that are strongly dependent on the structure of the core, shell, and interface, and also quite different from those of monometallic counterparts and alloys.96 This structure dependence opens possibilities for tuning properties by controlling their chemical composition and the relative sizes of the core and shell.
3.1 Preparation strategy for bimetallic coreshell NPs
Compared to the general (one-step) straightforward synthesis of bimetallic alloy NPs, the preparation strategy for coreshell structured NPs is diversified and also a bit more complicated. Herein, we would like to introduce several mostly accepted approaches for the fabrication of bimetallic coreshell NPs.
The successive two-step reduction for core and shell NPs, respectively, is almost universal to prepare coreshell bimetallic NPs. The deposition of the shell metal on the pre-formed core metal NPs seems to be very effective. To this end, however, a second metal must be deposited on the surface of the pre-formed particles, and the pre-formed metal NPs should be chemically surrounded by the deposited element. Xia and coworkers have prepared Pd@Au coreshell nanocrystals with controlled Au shell thickness via an epitaxial growth approach. They firstly synthesized Pd nanocubes with an average edge length of 10 nm in an aqueous solution by reducing Na2PdCl4 with l-ascorbic acid in the presence of bromide ions as capping agents. With the obtained Pd nanocubes as seeds, they overgrew Pd@Au nanocrystals by reducing HAuCl4 with l-ascorbic acid in aqueous solution. The Pd cores retained their original cubic shape during the deposition of Au shells. TEM observation showed that the Au overlayers completely covered the main faces of the Pd nanocubes and also the continuous lattice fringes from the Pd core to the Au shell, indicating an epitaxial relationship between the two metals.97 Tsuji et al. have prepared Au@Cu and Au@Ag coreshell nanocrystals using a two-step reduction method.98,99 The Au core seeds with different shapes were prepared by reducing HAuCl4 in ethylene glycol (EG) or tetraethylene glycol (TEG) under microwave heating in the presence of PVP as a polymersurfactant. Then the Cu or Ag shells were overgrown on the Au core seeds under oil-bath heating conditions. Although a large mismatch exists in lattice constants between Au (0.4079 nm) and Cu (0.3615 nm), the flat {111} facet of Cu shells were grown epitaxially on {111} facets of Au cores. Snchez-Iglesias et al. have fabricated Au@Ag coreshell nanostructures with controlled morphology at room temperature through epitaxial growth of Ag onto the surface of single-crystal Au nanorods, using hydroquinone as reduction agent for selective reduction of Ag+ ions. The presence of methoxy-poly(ethylene glycol)-thiol preferentially bound at the Au nanorod tips seems to completely block Ag growth in the longitudinal direction, thereby inducing a notable reshaping of the particles, with a subsequent decrease of aspect ratio, and ultimately leading to single-crystal octahedra, which get rounded through lamellar twinning upon further reduction. The morphology and thus the optical properties of these coreshell nanostructures can be finely tuned by controlling the amount of Ag grown on the particle surface.100 In the successive two-step reduction approach, it is fairly difficult to obtain the coreshell NPs on the sub-10 nm scale, especially in the absence of a stabilizer/surfactant. With the limitation effect of the pore/surface structure of a metalorganic framework (ZIF-8), a new type of porous functional material,101 we have successfully fabricated Au@Ag NPs within 26 nm without the help of a surfactant by a sequential depositionreduction route for Au and Ag. The deposition in a reverse order for Au and Ag also produced similar coreshell nanostructures while the shell was composed of AuAg alloy, caused by the galvanic replacement reaction due to the differences in reduction potentials of the two soluble metal salts (EAg+/Ag = +0.80 eV vs.SHE; EAu3+/Au = +0.93 eV vs.SHE) (Scheme 1).102 The stepwise synthesis was also employed for successful preparation of triple-layered Pd@Au@FePt NPs, in which Pd@Au NPs served as NP seeds for further FePt shell coating.103 Scheme 1 Schematic illustration for the preparation routes of Au@Ag and Au@AuAg coreshell NPs. Reproduced with permission from ref. 102. Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


What are the most commonly utilized synthesis methods for supported bimetallic catalysts, and how do these methods compare in terms of their potential advantages, applications, and overall efficacy in catalyst production?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 