I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


JOURNAL OF CATAL
YSIS 168, 7594 (1997)
ARTICLE NO. CA971617
Isobutane Dehydrogenation on PtSn/SiO2 Catalysts: Effect of Preparation Variables and Regeneration Treatments
S. M. Stagg,C. A. Querini, W. E. Alvarez,,1 and D. E. Resasco,2
University of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma 73072; and INCAPE Institute, Santa Fe, Argentina Received August 23, 1996; revised January 27, 1997; accepted January 27, 1997 The dehydrogenation of isobutane was studied under severely deactivating conditions, i.e., high temperatures and in the absence of added H2, over silica-supported PtSn catalysts. Several prepara- tion methods were investigated. It was found that the impregnation method employed has a strong influence on the degree of PtSn interaction and the fraction of Pt that remains unalloyed after the calcination and reduction process. The co-impregnation methods investigated were significantly superior to the sequential method. It was found that it is important to minimize the amount of unalloyed Pt left on the catalyst because this fraction rapidly forms coke and deactivates. At the same time, the fraction of unalloyed Pt, rather than the one alloyed with Sn, is responsible for most of the CO and hydrogen adsorbed at room temperature in typical chemisorp- tion measurements. As a consequence, the TOF values based on this type of measurements are in error because they are not related to the density of sites that are responsible for long term activity.
It was also found that the high-temperature reduction/oxidation treatments usually employed to regenerate spent catalysts can have a detrimental effect on the activity and selectivity of the PtSn/SiO2 catalysts. It is postulated that such thermal treatments lead to the disruption of the PtSn alloys causing an increase in the fraction of unalloyed surface Pt. As a result, the rates of coke formation and deactivation drastically increase. The monometallic (Pt only) cata- lysts are also affected by the high-temperature reduction/oxidation processes. The oxidation treatment results in an increased rate of coke formation and deactivation, while the regeneration process re- sults in a much smaller effect. This difference may be due to carbon residues left on the surface. These residues may disrupt Pt ensem- bles and cause a decrease in the rate of undesired reactions, such as hydrogenolysis and coking, that require a large ensemble of Pt atoms. c 1997 Academic Press
INTRODUCTION
Recent increases in demand of light olefins for the pro- duction of polymers and gasoline additives such as MTBE have increased the interest in lower alkane dehydrogena- 1 Permanent address: INTEMA, University of Mar del Plata, Argentina. 2 To whom correspondence should be addressed. Fax: (405) 325-5813.
E-mail: resasco@ou.edu. tion (1). The conditions best suited for this reaction, high temperatures, low pressures, and low hydrogen concentra- tions, favor rapid deactivation due to coke formation on the catalyst. On Pt-based catalysts, it is sometimes necessary to add hydrogen to the feed to reduce deactivation. How- ever, in commercial applications, the use of high hydro- gen/hydrocarbon feed ratios is highly undesirable because the equilibrium conversion decreases and the compression costs greatly increase.
Research has found that the addition of promoters, such as Sn, to Pt catalysts enhances their catalytic ability for de- hydrogenation (2, 3). One explanation for the enhanced properties of the promoted catalysts is the formation of al- loys between the Pt and the Sn which reduces the size of Pt ensembles (4, 5), decreasing coke formation and increasing selectivity. It has also been suggested that Sn may modify the catalytic properties of Pt by electronic or ligand effects (6, 7). This modification may be responsible for changes in the heat of adsorption of different adsorbates participating in the reaction (8, 9).
Even though Sn is one of the most efficient promoters employed in commercial processes (10, 11), deactivation due to coke formation is not completely eliminated and the catalysts still exhibit short lifetimes and must undergo continuous or frequent regenerations to maintain activity (12). The regeneration typically consists of exposing the spent catalyst to oxygen or air at high temperatures to burn off any carbon produced during the reaction, followed by a reduction step that brings the catalyst back to the active (metallic) form.
One of the issues that we explore in this contribu- tion is the possibility that the exposure to such reduc- tion/oxidation cycles can cause important changes in the catalyst morphology that negatively alter the catalytic prop- erties of the bimetallic catalyst. For example, studies have shown that PtRh alloys, when heated in air, form parti- cles with Pt-rich centers and Rh2O3 outer surface (13, 14).
Subsequent reduction results in a metallic Rh layer cover- ing a Pt core (15). On the other hand, PtPd supported al- loys behave differently when heated in air at high tempera- tures.OxidationcausesthePtPdalloytoformtwoseparate 75 0021-9517/97 $25.00 Copyright c 1997 by Academic Press All rights of reproduction in any form reserved. 76
STAGG ET AL.
crystallites of metal and PdO, both in contact with the sil- ica support (16). When reduced at high temperatures, the Pd forms metal particles on the edges of the Pt particle.
Work has also been done on PtIr alloys, and it has been shown that the alloy is completely destroyed when heated in air (17, 18). For the particular case of PtSn, Verbeek and Sachtler (7) proposed that, after exposure to air and sub- sequent reduction, the unsupported PtSn alloys become surface enriched in Sn at the expense of the subsurface zone, with the center of the particle getting rich in Pt. More recently, Chojnacki and Schmidt (19) studied PtSn films supported on planar amorphous silica films and found that exposure to O2 at 550C for 1 h resulted in destruction of the intermetallic species leaving metallic Pt cores surrounded by a ring of SnO2 in contact with the silica. However, af- ter subsequent reduction for long periods of time (18 h at 650C), complete recombination of the alloys was obtained.
The aim of this paper is to study the interaction be- tween the active metal (Pt) and the promoter (Sn) following different preparation methods, as well as the effects of re- generation treatments on catalytic properties. By using a combination of characterization techniques and catalytic activity measurements, we have studied three different PtSn bimetallic catalysts and analyzed the extent of metal metal interaction. It is widely recognized that the support can strongly affect the metalmetal interaction (20), and if it contains acidity, it can greatly promote the rate of coke for- mation under isobutane dehydrogenation conditions (21).
Therefore, we have used a silica support which interacts very weakly with Pt or Sn and does not contain acidity. We have found that on this support, the fraction of Pt that be- comes alloyed with Sn strongly depends on the preparation method. This fraction in turn has a strong influence on the catalytic performance and can be significantly altered under conditions typically encountered during regeneration.
We have also found that the standard method used to re- port turnover frequencies cannot be applied to the bimetal- lic PtSn catalysts because the fraction of unalloyed Pt which is responsible for the adsorption of H2 or CO, gener- ally used as probes to count sites, rapidly deactivates under reaction conditions. The rapid deactivation of unalloyed Pt is particularly important in the absence of added hydrogen.
TABLE 1
Characteristics of the Catalysts Investigated Catalyst nomenclature Pt (wt%) Molar Pt : Sn ratio Preparation techniques Solvent Precursor Pt (1.0)
1.0
1 : 0 Impregnation HCl H2PtCl6 Pt (1.5)
1.5
1 : 0 Impregnation Water H2PtCl6 PtSn (CI)
1.5
1 : 1 Co-impregnation Water H2PtCl6 PtSn (CIC)
1.0
1 : 1.65 Co-impregnation HCl H2PtCl6 PtSn (SI0.3)
0.3
1 : 1.65 Sequential impregnation Acetone Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 PtSn (SI1)
1.0
1 : 1.65 Sequential impregnation Acetone Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2
EXPERIMENTAL
Catalyst Preparation Pt and PtSn catalysts were supported on SiO2 (W. R.
Grace & Co., Silica Gel Grade 923). Table 1 shows the char- acteristics of the catalysts investigated. They were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation using SnCl2 · 2H2O and either H2PtCl6 · 6H2O or Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 as the precur- sors for the metals. The incipient wetness liquid/solid ra- tio was determined for each preparation and varied from
0.5 to 0.75 cc/g. Two monometallic Pt samples, (1.5 wt%)
and (1.0 wt%), were prepared by incipient wetness impreg- nation. The 1.5 wt% Pt was prepared using an aqueous solution of H2PtCl6 · 6H2O, while for the 1.0 wt% Pt cata- lyst, a HCl solution was used as the solvent. The bimetallic catalysts were prepared by three different techniques. One sample was made by co-impregnation with an aqueous so- lution containing a 1 : 1 molar ratio of Pt : Sn and will be referred to as CI. A second set of catalysts was prepared by sequential impregnation (SI) of Pt followed by Sn. In this case, Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 was dissolved in water while the Sn salt was dissolved in acetone. The two sequentially im- pregnated samples will be referred as SI0.3 (0.3 wt% Pt and
0.3 wt% Sn) and SI1 (1 wt% Pt and 1 wt% Sn). The third
technique used was co-impregnation of 1 wt% Pt and 1 wt% Sn with a HCl solution as the solvent and will be referred to as CIC. It has been shown (22) that, in the presence of HCl, a bimetallic complex PtCl2(SnCl3)2 2 is formed in solu- tion and a higher degree of metalmetal interaction should result. The impregnated samples were dried overnight at 110C and stored.
Subsequently, all catalysts were exposed to cycles of re- duction/oxidation before characterization and activity tests.
The treatments and nomenclature, summarized in Table 2,are as follows. The term fresh is applied to impregnated samples which were calcined in air at 400C for 2 h. Re- generated samples had initially the same pretreatment as the fresh ones, but then were reduced in H2 at 500C for 1 h, exposed to isobutane at 500C, and treated in air for 1 h at 300, 400, or 500C to burn any carbonaceous deposits that formed during reaction. These catalysts will be referred to as REG300, REG400, and REG500, respectively. Some ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 77
TABLE 2
Summary of the Different Pretreatments Performed on the Catalysts Pretreatment nomenclature Conditions Fresh Calcined in air at 400C for 2 h
REG300, REG400,
Fresh sample reduced in H2 at 500C for 1 h,
REG500
exposed to reaction conditions at 500C for 1 h, and then exposed to air at 300,400, and 500C, respectively, for 1 h
OX300, OX400, OX500
Fresh sample reduced in H2 at 500C for 1 h and exposed to air at 300, 400, and 500C, respectively, for 1 h fresh samples were reduced and then oxidized in air for 1 h at 300, 400, and 500C without exposure to isobutane. These samples will be referred to as OX300, OX400, and OX500,respectively.
Catalyst Characterization Volumetric H2 chemisorption measurements were per- formed using a Micromeritics ASAP 2000 system. For each measurement, 0.6 g of each catalyst was loaded into the chemisorption cell. The sample was reduced in situ at 500C for 1 h, evacuated to 106 Torr at 500C, and then cooled to 35C at which the adsorption of H2 was performed.
Chemisorption capacities were measured on fresh, OX300, OX400, and OX500 samples of Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CI), as well as on fresh PtSn (CIC).
Dynamic CO chemisorption measurements were carried out by sending 250-l pulses of 5% CO/He on 0.3-g sam- ples of either fresh catalysts, after reduction in H2 for 1 h at 500C, or catalysts that had been exposed to reaction condi- tions. The He used as a carrier and to purge the catalyst was purified through a MnO trap before contacting the sample.
A methanator reactor that quantitatively transforms CO in CH4 was employed to increase the sensitivity of the CO analysis. A FID detector was used to continuously monitor the CH4. Details of this technique can be found elsewhere (23). To determine the CO adsorption capacity, consecu- tive pulses were sent until the amount of CO leaving the sample was the same as that by-passing the sample. The ad- sorption capacity (CO/Pt) was calculated from the sum of the differences between the by-pass and each pulse.
Transmissionelectronmicroscopy(TEM)wasperformed on fresh and OX500 samples of a bimetallic catalyst with Pt : Sn ratio of 1 : 1. Each sample was reduced at 500C for 1 h, cooled in He to room temperature, and then slowly exposed to air overnight. The catalyst was then ground into a fine powder and suspended in isopropyl alcohol. One drop of solution was placed on a 0.3-mm-diameter Lacey carbon grid (Electron Microscopy Sciences) and allowed to dry. All samples were analyzed using a JEOL 2000FX TEM.
Temperature-programmed reduction
(TPR)
experi- ments were performed on fresh samples of Pt, PtSn (CI), PtSn(CIC),andPtSn(SI)inanOKHURATP-2002Ssys- tem. In addition, TPRs were performed on OX300, OX400, OX500, and REG500 samples of Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CI).
The sample weight varied from 0.25 to 0.34 g; therefore, all signals have been normalized to a per gram basis. The TPR runs were conducted using a heating rate of 10C/min in a flow of 5% H2/Ar (45 cc/min) up to 800C. A zeolite trap was used to eliminate water during the TPR.
Temperature-programmed oxidation
(TPO)
experi- ments of carbonaceous deposits deposited under reaction conditions were conducted on the Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CI) catalysts.Samplesconsistingof0.1gwereheatedto500Cin a H2 flow (100 cc/min). At 500C, each sample was exposed to isobutane or mixtures of isobutane/H2/He for 15 min and then cooled to room temperature in He. Once at room tem- perature, the sample was heated at a rate of 8C/min in O2 (30 cc/min) up to 800C. TPOs of carbonaceous deposits were also performed on fresh Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CI) sam- ples after exposure to pure isobutane for 2 min. The heating rate was 8C/min in a 5% O2/He mixture (30 cc/min). The exit gases were analyzed using a quadrupole residual gas an- alyzer from MKS. In order to normalize the pressure data,200 l of CO2 was injected three times when the system reached 800C and the average peak area for the injections was determined. The amount of coke formed on the cata- lysts under various conditions was determined using the known moles of CO2 and the area of the injections.
Catalyst Activity The isobutane dehydrogenation activity was measured in a flow reactor consisting of a quartz tube with an inner diameter of 0.4 cm and an outer diameter of 0.6 cm. Sam- ples consisting of 0.015 g of each catalyst were loaded into the quartz reactor, supported on both sides by quartz wool.
The samples were reduced in situ at 500C for 1 h and then contacted with the feed gas containing varying concentra- tions of isobutane in He. The majority of the runs were conducted in the absence of H2, using a 2 : 1 isobutane : He ratio, at a flow rate of 36 cc/min, which resulted in a space velocity of 248 WHSV. The exit gases were analyzed in a Hewlett Packard GCD equipped with a quadrapole mass analyzer which identified all species generated during the reaction. The conversion was calculated from the area of the isobutene peak divided by the sum of the areas of all the species detected. The selectivity was calculated from the area of the isobutene peak divided by the sum of the areas of all the products.
To ensure that no heat transport problems occurred,thermocouples were placed in direct contact with the top and bottom of the bed during the reaction. In addition,a third thermocouple was placed at the side of the bed which was used to control the temperature of the furnace. 78
STAGG ET AL.
The temperature drop across the bed was measured during the runs, and the largest 1T observed was less than 2C.
For a typical activation energy of 20 kcal/mol, this differ- ence, measured at the highest conversion (approximately 35%) would represent a maximum error of 1% conver- sion, which is much less than the typical variations in activ- ity due to any of the effects that we have considered in the paper. Similarly, from the application of the WieszPrater criteria for internal diffusion, we have concluded that mass transfer limitations were not present in our experiments.
RESULTS
H2 and CO Chemisorption Table 3 gives the H2 chemisorption data obtained for fresh samples of Pt (1.5), PtSn (CI), and PtSn (CIC) cata- lysts, as well as OX300, OX400, and OX500 Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CI) catalysts. As shown in Table 3, the bimetallic catalysts PtSn (CI) and, particularly, PtSn (CIC) exhib- ited significantly lower chemisorption capacities than the monometallic catalysts. For the pure Pt (1.5) sample, vary- ing the oxidation temperature resulted in only a small vari- ation in the fraction of Pt exposed. The PtSn (CI) sample showed an initial decrease in the fraction exposed with oxi- dation at 300C followed by little variation in adsorption ca- pacity with increasing oxidation temperature. Chemisorp- tion values on the fresh samples were within the range of values reported in the literature (15, 24, 25).
The CO adsorption studies were performed on fresh and spent Pt (1.5 and 1.0), PtSn (CI), and PtSn (CIC)
TABLE 3
Hydrogen and CO Chemisorption and Initial Turnover Frequencies Turnover frequencies (sec1) Chemisorption Per Based on Based on total Catalyst Pretreatment H/Pt CO/Pt H/Pt CO/Pt Pt Pt (1.5) Fresh
0.51
0.38
2.2
3.6
1.12
OX300
0.58
2.3
OX400
0.56
OX500
0.49
2.4
Spent
0.13
Pt (1.0) Fresh
0.3
Spent
0.03
PtSn (CI) Fresh
0.30
0.1
6.2
20.6
1.86
OX300
0.21
7.9
OX400
0.24
7.1
OX500
0.22
4.5
Spent
0.02
PtSn (CIC) Fresh
0.09
0.06
30.9
46.3
2.78
Spent
<0.01
catalysts. Table 3 shows the amount of CO adsorbed by each catalyst. As in the case of H2 chemisorption, the monometallic Pt catalysts was found to adsorb much more CO than the bimetallic samples. The PtSn (CIC) catalyst showed slightly less CO adsorption than the PtSn (CI) sample. An interesting result was observed on the spent catalysts. After 1 h under reaction conditions (500C, pure isobutane, 30 WHSV) the samples were cooled in pure He and tested by dynamic CO adsorption. As shown in Table 3,the adsorption capacity of the bimetallic samples, particu- larly PtSn (CIC), became exceedingly low. It is important to note that, despite losing their chemisorption capacity,these samples still retained most of their original activity.
Transmission Electron Microscopy Figures 1a and 1b show the TEM images of a co- impregnated 1 : 1 Pt : Sn catalyst. The micrographs repre- sent respectively the fresh and OX500 samples after re- duction in H2 at 500C for 1 h. The fresh sample showed two types of particles. The first range from 2550 A in size and were very light in contrast. The second type were much larger(150250 A)andmuchdarkerincontrast.Aftertreat- ment in air at 500C for 1 h and reduction for 1 h, both types of particles underwent changes. The small particles expe- rienced growth so that the average particle size became 50100
A. The larger particles also experienced morpho-
logical changes so that the contrast of the particles was no longer homogeneous. The particles consisted of surfaces of light contrast with distinct patches of darker contrast.
The monometallic Pt catalyst exhibited smaller particles (2030 A),consistentwiththedispersionvaluesdetermined by the chemisorption measurements.
Temperature-Programmed Reduction Figure 2 shows the results of the TPR studies done on the pure Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CIC) catalysts after calcination at
350C. The TPR for the pure Pt catalyst shows that the H2
consumption has a maximum at about 125C and ends at about 200C. This profile also shows some H2 consumption at about 400C. However, this is not due to the reduction of Pt species, but rather to the removal of impregnation pre- cursors which were not totally eliminated during the initial calcination step. The profile for the PtSn (CIC) catalyst has two H2 consumption peaks. The first appears in the same position as that for pure Pt (125C), while the second has a maximum at 200C. Unlike the catalysts prepared by se- quential impregnation, the PtSn (CIC) shows no reduction peak at high temperatures, characteristic of unalloyed Sn.
The profiles for the PtSn (Si0.3) catalysts are shown in Fig. 3. They contain peaks that are broader and extend to much higher temperatures than those shown in Fig. 2. Cal- cination of the sample at 400C resulted in three H2 con- sumption regions. The first peak again appears at the same position as that for pure Pt (125C) and has the smallest ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 79
FIG. 1.
TEM micrographs of co-impregnated silica-supported PtSn catalyst (1 wt% Pt, 1 wt% Sn) (a) fresh after reduction and (b) OX500 after reduction. intensity of the three peaks. The second consumption re- gion is the largest and has a maximum near 250C. The last region spans from approximately 400 to 600C with the greatest intensity at about 525C. Figure 3 also shows the consequences of increasing the calcination temperature on
FIG. 2.
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) profiles of silica-supported Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CIC) catalysts after calcination at 350C. the TPR profile. When the calcination was done at 500C for 2 h, the peak at 125C did not change much, but the peak at 250C decreased in intensity while the higher tempera- ture peak became dominant. Also, the position of the third region shifted slightly so that the maximum occurred at 80
STAGG ET AL.
FIG. 3.
TPR profiles of silica-supported PtSn (Si0.3) catalyst after calcination at various temperatures and times.
575C. When the calcination time increased to 4 h, the low-
temperature region showed a large increase in intensity.
The TPR profiles for the PtSn (CI) catalyst after oxi- dation at different temperatures are shown in Fig. 4. The fresh PtSn (CI) sample showed three hydrogen consump- tion peaks centered at 146, 186, and 375C. The first two peaks appeared as a large broad region with the highest intensity at 186C and a shoulder at lower temperatures.
The third peak was much smaller. Subsequent oxidation of the reduced sample at 300, 400, and 500C resulted in the removal of the high-temperature peak and, more relevant
FIG. 4.
TPR profiles of the PtSn (CI) catalyst after various pretreatments: fresh, OX300, OX400, and OX500 (see Table 2 for details of each pretreatment). to the succeeding discussion, a significant decrease in the intensity of the peak at 186C. This decrease in intensity was accompanied by the appearance of a shoulder between 200 and 300C that made the peak broader. Finally, the peak that appeared at 146C on the fresh sample slightly changed position as the oxidation temperature increased. A compa- rable set of experiments was done for the pure Pt (1.5) cata- lyst (not shown). These runs exhibited a single consump- tion peak at about 125C which did not change much after the various oxidation pretreatments. These runs confirmed that the peak at about 400C in the fresh monometallic ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 81
FIG. 5.
TPR profiles of the PtSn (CI) catalyst after various pretreatments: fresh and REG500 (see Table 2 for details of each pretreatment). catalyst was due to the removal of residues from the im- pregnation precursors. They were eliminated during the re- duction/oxidation cycles and the H2 consumption at 400C did not appear for these samples.
Figure 5 shows the TPR results for the regenerated PtSn (CI) sample, REG500, in comparison to the fresh catalyst.
The result is similar to that observed for the series of oxi- dized samples, although in this case the effects were more pronounced. The low-temperature peak shifted to the posi-
FIG. 6.
Temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) profiles of carbonaceous deposits left on the monometallic Pt (1.5) and the bimetallic PtSn (CI) catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500C for 15 min. tion that is typical of unalloyed Pt, 125C, while the conver- sion of the 186C peak into a broad peak at about 240C was more evident for this sample than for the oxidized samples.
Temperature-Programmed Oxidation of Carbonaceous Deposits TPO studies were performed on the catalysts after expo- sure to isobutane for 15 min. Figure 6 shows that, in agree- ment with previous studies (4), the addition of Sn decreased 82
STAGG ET AL.
FIG. 7.
TPO profiles of carbonaceous deposits left on the catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500C for 15 min at a constant isobutane flow rate of 54 cc/min (83 WHSV) and He flow rates of 0, 25, and 50 cc/min. (a) Pt (1.5)/SiO2 catalyst; (b) PtSn (CI)/SiO2 catalyst. the intensity of the CO2 evolution in all three oxidation re- gions. The position of the peaks are the same for the pure Pt and bimetallic PtSn samples; however, the amount of coke formed on the bimetallic sample was approximately 50% less than that on the monometallic Pt catalyst. The amount of carbon formed on the Pt (1.5) catalyst after 15 min was
0.31 wt%, which corresponds to about four C atoms per Pt
atom.
Figures 7a and 7b show the results of diluting the isobu- tane feed with He on the Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CI) samples,respectively. On the Pt catalyst, dilution with He had almost no influence on the amount of coke measured after 15 min of reaction. However, on the PtSn (CI) dilution with He resulted in the reduction of the largest TPO peak (375C) by about 50% and almost complete elimination of the high- temperature oxidation peak (510C). Dilution with He did not affect the position of any of the three oxidation peaks for either the Pt (1.5) or the PtSn (CI) catalysts.
Changing the partial pressure of isobutane with the addi- tion of H2 modified the coke formation for both the Pt (1.5) and the PtSn (CI) catalysts. Figures 8a and 8b show that the intensity of all of the peaks decreased by about 50% when the ratio of H2 to isobutane approached 1. Also, the high-temperature peak showed a slight shift in temperature ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 83
FIG. 8.
TPO profiles of carbonaceous deposits left on the catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500C for 15 min at a constant isobutane flow rate of 54 cc/min (83 WHSV) and H2 flow rates of 0, 25, and 50 cc/min. (a) Pt (1.5)/SiO2 catalyst; (b) PtSn (CI)/SiO2 catalyst. from a maximum of 500C with no H2 flow to 525C at a H2 flow of 50 cc/min. The PtSn (CI) catalyst showed changes in both the intensity and the positions of the peaks with the addition of H2. The largest peak shifted from ap- proximately 375C with no H2 flow to 325C with H2 flow of 50 cc/min. The high-temperature peak was not affected with a H2 flow of 20 cc/min but was completely removed at the higher flow rate of H2. Figure 9 compares the amount of carbon deposited on each catalyst for the various con- ditions described above. The trend lines clearly show the effects of adding H2 and He to the feed stream along with the reduction in coke formation with the addition of Sn. It is observed that dilution with He does not affect the amount of coke deposited on the monometallic catalyst. Deactiva- tion of the Pt catalyst occurs so rapidly that saturation of the surface by carbon deposits has occurred after only a few minutes on stream. However, dilution with hydrogen results in a marked decrease in the amount of carbon when the H2 : hydrocarbon ratio approaches 1 : 1 due to hydro- genation of coke precursors.
Figure 10 shows the TPO profiles for three Pt (1.5) sam- ples after exposure to pure isobutane for 2 min. The first is 84
STAGG ET AL.
FIG. 9.
Amount of carbon deposited on the Pt (1.5) and PtSn (CI)/SiO2 catalysts, after 15-min exposure to isobutane at 500C and at a space velocity of 83 WHSV, as a function of isobutane concentration in He (circles) and H2 (squares). a fresh sample exposed to isobutane at 500C for 2 min. The second is OX500 which has been exposed to isobutane for 2 min at 500C. The third is a fresh sample which has been exposed to isobutane for 2 min at 500C, regenerated in air at 500C for 1 h, reduced in H2 at 500C for 1 h, and then exposed to isobutane a second time for 2 min (REG500).
Since the amount of coke is a strong function of the olefin concentration in the gas phase and, consequently, the level of conversion, we have normalized the TPO signal to the
FIG. 10.
TPO profiles of fresh, OX500, and REG500 samples of pure Pt (1.5)/SiO2 catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500C (248 WHSV) for 2 min. steady-state conversion obtained on each of the samples.
All comparisons will be made on this basis.
The TPO profile for the fresh sample of the monometal- lic Pt (1.5) catalyst after 2 min of reaction is similar to the one obtained after 15 min of reaction. Oxidation at 500C before exposure to reaction caused the position of the CO2 peaks to shift to higher temperatures. The appearance of a high-temperature oxidation peak was seen on the oxidized catalyst, but this peak was not present on the regenerated ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 85 sample. This high-temperature peak started at approxi- mately 550C and spanned up to 800C. The two peaks at lower temperatures shifted from approximately 275 and 400C to 350 and 425C, respectively. The amount of coke formed on the oxidized catalyst was slightly less than that of the fresh sample. Regeneration of the catalyst resulted in a 45% decrease in the coke formed during the second expo- sure to isobutane. The positions of all three oxidation peaks were identical to that of the fresh sample; however, the in- tensity of each of the peaks, especially the one at 400C,was significantly reduced.
As we explain below, we ascribe the reduced rate of coke formation observed on the regenerated catalysts to the presence of coke deposits that were not removed by the regeneration process. These remaining deposits mod- ify the Pt surface making it more resistant to coking. To prove this, we conducted TPO measurements on a regen- erated catalyst without further exposure to the isobutane feed. Indeed, this experiment showed that about 25% of the carbon initially deposited still remained on the catalyst after the regeneration step.
Contrary to the monometallic catalyst, the bimetallic PtSn (CI) showed an increase in the rate of coke forma- tion after the regeneration and oxidation pretreatments.
As shown in Fig. 11, the fresh sample formed a very low amount of coke during exposure to isobutane for 2 min.
Only one broad oxidation peak was observed at approxi- mately 375C. The OX500 catalyst formed a much larger amount of coke and the subsequent TPO profile looked very similar to that of the oxidized monometallic Pt (1.5) sample. The main peak shifted to temperatures near 410C and a new high-temperature peak appeared near 650C.
FIG. 11.
TPO profiles of fresh, OX500, and REG500 sample of PtSn (CI)/SiO2 catalysts after exposure to isobutane at 500C (248 WHSV) for 2 min.
Like the oxidized PtSn catalyst, the regenerated sample (REG500) resulted in a much higher rate of coke forma- tion that the fresh bimetallic catalyst and the TPO of this sample exhibited a single broad peak centered at around
410C.
In summary, the reduction/oxidation (500C) cycle on the monometallic Pt catalyst did not have a great effect on the amount of coke formed during the following reac- tion period but significantly altered its oxidation character- istics, i.e., the coke became more refractory. The regener- ation of the Pt catalyst did not completely eliminate the coke deposits, but these deposits hindered further forma- tion of coke. A very different behavior was exhibited by the bimetallic catalysts. Both the oxidation and the regenera- tion procedures caused a large increase in the amount of coke that was formed during the subsequent 2-min cycles under reaction conditions.
Isobutane Dehydrogenation Activity Isobutane dehydrogenation reaction studies were per- formed on the monometallic Pt and bimetallic PtSn (CI), PtSn (CIC), and PtSn (SI) catalysts. Figures 12a and 12b compare the dehydrogenation activity and selectivity of the Pt (1.5), PtSn (CI), PtSn (CIC), and PtSn (SI1) catalysts in a flow of isobutane : He, 2 : 1, at a space velocity of 248
WHSV. Although all bimetallic catalysts showed greater
activity and selectivity than the unpromoted catalyst, the co-impregnated catalysts exhibited a significantly better performance than the sequentially impregnated catalyst.
This superior performance was evident in the activity, se- lectivity, and stability. The selectivity of the co-impregnated 86
STAGG ET AL.
FIG. 12.
Isobutane dehydrogenation as a function of time on stream over Pt (1.5), PtSn (SI), PtSn (CI), and PtSn (CIC) catalysts in a flow of isobutane : He (2 : 1 ratio) at 500C (248 WHSV). (a) conversion (%); (b) selectivity to isobutene (%). bimetallics remained near 96% throughout the duration of the experiment, while the Pt (1.5) catalyst selectivity started at 80% and increased to reach a maximum of 84% after 100 min on stream. The sequentially impregnated catalyst presented a selectivity higher than the monometallic, but substantially lower than the co-impregnated catalysts.
The most dramatic differences displayed among the bimetallic catalysts prepared by the different procedures was observed when the samples were tested under pure isobutane at 500C and a space velocity of 300 WHSV. Un- der these conditions the deactivation of the monometallic catalysts was very fast and the conversion after a few min- utes was below the detectable limit. By contrast, no deac- tivation was observed on the PtSn (CIC) catalyst which,under these conditions, maintained a 10% conversion for several hours and 100% selectivity to isobutylene. As il- lustrated in Fig. 13, the other co-impregnated CI catalyst exhibited similarly high conversion and selectivity. How- ever, the rate of deactivation was significantly higher than that observed on the CIC sample. Finally, the sequen- tially impregnated catalyst exhibited a much poorer per- formance, with a conversion about one order of magnitude ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 87
FIG. 13.
Logarithmic comparison of the variation of isobutane conversion as a function of time for the PtSn (CI), PtSn (CIC) and PtSn (Si1) in a flow of isobutane at 500C (300 WHSV). lower and, even at these low conversions, a high rate of deactivation.
Figure 14 shows the results of an experiment performed to analyze the effects of the presence of H2 on the activity and selectivity of the bimetallic PtSn (CIC) catalyst. In the first run, we exposed the sample to a flow of 10 cc/min isobu- tane and 110 cc/min He at a space velocity of 245 WHSV.
FIG. 14.
Effect of hydrogen addition on the time evolution of the isobutane dehydrogenation activity of a fresh PtSn (CIC) sample at 500C.
Circles, run in an isobutane : He mixture at a 10 : 110 flow ratio and a space velocity of 245 WHSV. Diamonds run in isobutane : He : H2 at flow of 10 : 100 : 10 (245 WHSV) for 90 min and then returned to the conditions of the first run, that is, flow of isobutane : He at 10 : 110 (245 WHSV).
Under these conditions, the catalyst exhibited a high ini- tial activity but deactivated rapidly. A subsequent run was performed in the presence of H2 keeping the same space velocity. In this run we used a flow of 10 cc/min isobutane,100 cc/min He, and 10 cc/min H2. In this case, the initial ac- tivity was much lower than that in the absence of H2 but the deactivation was much less severe. After 90 min on stream,88
STAGG ET AL.
the flow was switched to the conditions of the first run, and the conversion increased to values even greater than that on the catalyst that was not exposed to H2. Similar exper- iments were also performed on the pure Pt (1.0) catalyst;however, in this case, the initial activity in the presence of H2 was higher than that for the runs diluted only with He.
To study the effect of regeneration on the monometallic and bimetallic catalysts, the spent Pt (1.5) catalyst after a reaction period of 100 min at 500C (2 : 1 isobutane : He,248 WHSV) was regenerated by carbon burning in air for 1 h at 300 and 500C with subsequent reduction for 1 h in H2 at 500C. Figure 15a shows that, in the case of the
FIG. 15.
Isobutane dehydrogenation as a function of time on stream over fresh, REG300, REG500, OX300, and OX500 samples of pure Pt (1.5) in a flow of isobutane : He (2 : 1 ratio) at 500C (248 WHSV). (a) conversion (%); (b) selectivity to isobutene (%). monometallic Pt (1.5) catalyst, the regeneration at 300 and 500C resulted in a catalytic behavior similar to that of the fresh Pt (1.5) catalyst. Figure 15a also shows the activity data for the pure Pt sample after reduction followed by oxidation at 300 and 500C (OX300 and OX500) and sub- sequent reduction at 500C. On these samples, the level of activity after 2 min was about the same as that of the fresh or regenerated samples, but, as opposed to the regenerated catalysts, these samples exhibited a dramatic increase in the rate of deactivation. After 90 min on stream, the catalysts had lost approximately 50% of their respective activities at 2 min.
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 89
FIG. 16.
Isobutane dehydrogenation activity for fresh, REG300, REG400, and REG500 samples of PtSn (CI) in a flow of 2 : 1 isobutane : He at 500C (248 WHSV).
The corresponding selectivity data for the same series of samples are shown in Fig. 15b. The fresh Pt sample had the lowest selectivity to isobutene when compared to the regenerated and oxidized catalysts. The regenerated cata- lysts had selectivities at 2 min near that of the fresh Pt, but then increased with time on stream to approximately 85%.
Oxidation at 300 and 500C resulted in an initial decrease in the selectivity, but after 10 min on stream the selectivity already reached 85% and continued to increase to values near 90%.
FIG. 17.
Isobutane dehydrogenation activity for fresh, OX300, OX400, and PtSn (CI) in a flow of 2 : 1 isobutane : He at 500C (248 WHSV).
Figure 16 shows the effects of regeneration on the bimetallic PtSn (CI) catalyst. The catalyst regenerated at 300Cregainedalmostalloftheactivityofthefreshcatalyst.
On the other hand, regeneration at 500C resulted in a large loss of activity. The selectivity of the PtSn (CI) catalyst showed only a slight decrease with regeneration. Figure 17 depicts the effects of the reduction/oxidation cycles on the PtSn (CI) catalysts. The activity observed on the OX300 and OX500 samples was lower than the activity of the catalyst regenerated under the same conditions. Also, the 90
STAGG ET AL.
selectivities of all of the oxidized samples were lower than those of the regenerated samples at the equivalent temper- atures. The catalytic behavior of the PtSn (CIC) sample (not shown) did not differ much from that of the PtSn (CI) sample described above. The main difference was a more pronounced drop in activity and selectivity after the regeneration treatment at 500C.
In summary, although the bimetallic catalysts exhib- ited higher activity and selectivity than the monometal- lic ones, these differences became less pronounced after reduction/oxidation treatments at high temperatures. The high-temperature oxidation treatment had adverse effects on both monometallic and bimetallic catalysts, while the high-temperature regeneration only affected the catalytic behavior of the bimetallic samples.
DISCUSSION
The results presented in this contribution show the im- portance of the type of impregnation procedure used in the preparation of PtSn/SiO2 catalysts and demonstrate that the regeneration process may result in deterioration of the catalytic performance due to a decreased interaction between the active metal and the promoter.
Effect of the Impregnation Method Employed The composition of the bimetallic clusters in PtSn cata- lysts has been a matter of study for several years (26). The presence of bimetallic alloys has often been reported. For example, from their EXAFS and X-ray diffraction data, Meitzner et al. (6) have proposed that PtSn and Pt3Sn al- loys are present in reduced PtSn catalysts. Similarly, Li et al. (27) used Mossbauer studies to show that PtSn is the most prevalent alloy formed on the bimetallic catalyst. Cho- jnacki and Schmidt (19) used TEM and electron diffraction to show that Pt and Sn supported on planar amorphous silica films consisted of several intermetallic species includ- ing PtSn, Pt3Sn, and PtSn4. Reduction of the films for 18 h at 650C in H2 resulted in particles with the major phase being PtSn but with a surface layer of PtSn4. No FCC Pt was found on these films, possibly due to the long reduc- tion times and high reduction temperatures. Although the oxidation state of Sn has been a matter of discussion, it is now widely accepted that the fraction of tin alloyed with Pt is metallic Sn0 (28) and this fraction is much larger on SiO2 than on Al2O3 (27, 29). Therefore, we could expect than on our SiO2 support, depending on the initial distribution of the precursors on the surface, a relatively large amount of Sn should be alloyed with Pt.
In fact, the different TPR results obtained for the var- ious preparations can be explained in terms of the pres- ence of PtSn alloys of different compositions (19, 30).
The position of the reduction peaks can be expected to shift to higher temperatures as the concentration of Sn,more difficult to reduce than Pt, increases. For example,the PtSn (CIC) sample showed two distinct hydrogen con- sumption peaks. The low-temperature reduction peak at around 125C is characteristic of unalloyed Pt and was also seen on the monometallic Pt catalyst. The dominant peak at about 200C can be ascribed to a PtSn alloy with a higher concentration of Sn than those observed on the PtSn (CI) sample, which had H2 consumption peaks ap- pearing at lower temperatures. In both cases, however,peaks indicative of unalloyed Sn, which should appear at much higher temperatures, were not observed. By contrast,the sequentially impregnated catalyst, PtSn (SI), exhib- ited high-temperature consumption peaks. In this case, the Pt species are much less effective in catalyzing the reduc- tion of Sn, indicating that a large fraction of Sn is physically separated from Pt. These results demonstrate that, among the preparation methods studied here, the co-impregnation methods are clearly superior to the sequential impregna- tion method. Preparations based on sequential impregna- tion methods may result in low extents of PtSn interac- tion. For example, in agreement with our data, Barias et al.
(15) have reported TPR profiles of PtSn catalysts prepared by sequential impregnation that show large H2 consump- tions at high temperatures, indicating a large fraction of unalloyed Sn. If, as discussed below, the catalytic perfor- mance is a strong function of the extent of metalmetal interaction, the sequential impregnation method is not recommended.
The hydrogen and CO chemisorption data also support the conclusion that on the CIC sample there is a larger extent of PtSn interaction than on the CI sample. Even though both bimetallic catalysts showed a decrease in the ability to adsorb hydrogen and CO when compared to the monometallic sample, the PtSn (CIC) sample has a much lower adsorption capacity, corresponding to a higher de- gree of PtSn interaction. A similar drop in chemisorption capacity has been observed by Cortright and Dumesic (31),who found that increasing the Sn loading resulted in a de- crease in the fraction of exposed sites and a weakening of the hydrogen adsorption strength.
Effect of the PtSn Interaction on Dehydrogenation Activity The extent of metalmetal interaction resulting from the different preparations greatly affects the catalytic perfor- mance. One of the most obvious effects that we observed when adding Sn was an improvement in selectivity and sta- bility compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst, even in the absence of H2 in the feed.
These increases in stability and selectivity have been gen- erally explained (4, 5) in terms of dilution of Pt ensembles by Sn, which greatly reduces the activity toward reactions that require a large ensemble of Pt atoms to constitute the ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 91 active sites, such as hydrogenolysis and coking. Also, the increase in selectivity of the pure Pt sample with time on stream can be explained by the same geometric arguments.
The carbon deposits play the role of the inactive species that inhibit further undesired reactions. This explanation accounts for two observations on the pure Pt catalyst. Both the selectivity and the stability of the catalyst improve as a function of time on stream as the number of large ensem- bles in reduced by the presence of carbon.
On the pure Pt catalyst the initial deactivation is very fast.
Thus, it is difficult to measure the true initial activity and determine whether the initial dehydrogenation rate on Pt is higher or lower than on the bimetallic catalyst. Some au- thors have reported that pure Pt is initially more active but after a short time it deactivates while the bimetallic retains its activity (32). Other authors have reported lower activ- ities for the monometallic catalyst. It is conceivable that,in the catalysts prepared by sequential impregnation, the fraction of unalloyed Pt that rapidly deactivates is large enough to show a much lower initial rate than those pre- pared by co-impregnation. For the latter, the fraction of un- alloyed Pt would be less and, as a consequence, they would present a lower extent of rapid deactivation.
The TEM micrographs in Figs. 1a and 1b show that the bimetallic catalyst contains large (250 A) particles. As stated before, we believe that these particles are a combi- nation of several PtSn alloys. Even though the bimetallic catalysts, which have a high degree of interaction, are com- posed of these large particles, they still exhibited higher initial activity than the pure Pt catalyst which had much smaller particles (see Fig. 12). It is then clear that the cata- lytic activity that will result after the first few minutes on stream is not determined by the fraction of Pt exposed, i.e.,the metal particle size, but rather by the degree of inter- action between the metal and the promoter. The catalysts which have less interaction have a higher fraction of un- alloyed Pt. As shown in Fig. 13, the PtSn (SI) catalyst,which had the lowest extent of PtSn interaction, exhibited a very high rate of deactivation, much greater than that of the PtSn (CI) or (CIC) catalysts.
The notion that rapid deactivation is responsible for the apparent increase in initial activity with the addition of Sn is supported by the results of activity studies performed in the presence of hydrogen. Figure 14 clearly shows that the presence of hydrogen decreases the initial activity of the bimetallic catalyst. However, even though the initial activ- ity of the catalyst decreases, the stability of the catalyst is increased because the presence of hydrogen increases the resilience to coke formation by cleaning the Pt surface (see Fig. 9). On the other hand, the results for the pure Pt cata- lyst show that the addition of H2 resulted in increases in both initial activity and stability. On this catalyst, the coke removal capacity of hydrogen overcomes the decrease in activity by adsorption site competition. As a result, the re- duction in deactivation rate manifests itself as an apparent increase in initial activity.
Although the geometric modification of the Pt ensembles by addition of Sn may explain most of the observed changes in catalytic properties, there are some indications that more subtle ligand effects may also be present. For example, the shape of the white line in the Pt LIII XANES spectra, rep- resenting allowed transitions from occupied 2p orbitals to unoccupied 5d orbitals is significantly altered by addition of Sn. This modification has been explained in terms of a transfer of electrons from Sn to Pt which would reduce the number of unfilled d states in Pt and could have an effect on the intrinsic catalytic properties. More recently, on the basis of a comparison of several intermetallic compounds (Pt3M, where M = Ti, Co, or Sn), Ross (33) postulated that the intermetallic interaction is predominantly through sp orbitals rather than through d orbitals. In the case of Pt3Sn alloys, the PtSn bonding would involve the occupied Sn5p and the unoccupied Pt6p. The resulting donation of p elec- trons from Sn to Pt would only have an indirect effect on the d states of Pt, which would shift to lower energies and become narrower.
Even though the PtSn interaction is relatively subtle, it can result in a decrease in the heat of CO adsorption as large as 20 kJ/mol (34). This energy difference would cause dramatic changes in the adsorption equilibrium constants at 298 K and, consequently, in the observed adsorption capac- ity. For example, a simple calculation can be done assuming that, at room temperature and under the dynamic adsorp- tion conditions, the CO surface coverage should be signif- icantly less than 1. Accordingly, a lowering of 20 kJ/mol in heat of adsorption represents a drop in coverage by a factor of 3.2 × 103.
If we analyze the CO adsorption data in Table 3, we can see that although the spent catalysts were still active after 1 h on stream, their CO adsorption capacity approached zero. As discussed above, the unalloyed Pt should be rapidly covered by coke while the PtSn alloys remain more or less free of coke. We can conclude that the alloyed Pt does not adsorb significant amounts of CO and, therefore, the CO/Pt measured on the fresh catalyst is mainly due to the fraction of unalloyed Pt. The situation may be similar for the H2 chemisorption. In fact, Verbeek and Sachtler (7) have shown that PtSn alloys adsorb very little hydrogen and have ascribed this decrease to a lowering of the heat of adsorption. Recent microcalorimetry studies (5, 28, 29) showed that, even though the addition of Sn resulted in a large decrease in the saturation H or CO adsorption cov- erages, the heats of adsorption at zero coverage on Pt : Sn (1 : 1) samples were similar to those on pure Pt. However,it must be noted that these SiO2-supported samples were prepared by sequential impregnation and, as shown above,this technique leads to a large fraction of unalloyed Pt. The adsorption that is measured under the conditions of those 92
STAGG ET AL.
studies occurs primarily on the Pt sites which are not form- ing an alloy with Sn. For changes in the initial heats of ad- sorption to be seen, a large fraction of Pt would need to be alloyed with Sn. When higher Sn concentrations were used in those studies, the heats of adsorption at zero coverage decreased significantly, as expected.
This conclusion has important consequences on the meaning of turnover frequencies on PtSn catalysts. For example, if we compare the TOF based on both CO and hy- drogen chemisorption for the pure Pt and bimetallic PtSn catalysts we observe that these values significantly increase in the order Pt < PtSn (CI) < PtSn (CIC). Being dehy- drogenation a structure-insensitive reaction, geometric ar- guments alone would predict that the TOF should be about the same on the three catalysts. As explained above, it is difficult to determine the true initial activity because,even after only a couple of minutes under reaction con- ditions the catalyst is already partially deactivated. Using a H2 : hydrocarbon ratio of 6 : 1, Cortright and Dumesic (5) have found TOF values for a 1 : 1 Pt : Sn catalyst that are very similar to that of the pure Pt catalyst. However, at those high H2 : hydrocarbon ratios, the initial deactivation should be much less severe than in our case.If, as proposed above, the initial deactivation increases with the amount of unalloyed Pt, we might expect that de- activationshouldfollowtheoppositeordertothatoftheob- served TOF, i.e., Pt > PtSn (CI) > PtSn (CIC), even when the true initial TOF was the same on the three samples. The unalloyed Pt in the sample, due to rapid deactivation, is not the species responsible for sustained activity. However, CO and H2 chemisorption primarily occurs on the unalloyed Pt.
Therefore, for bimetallic PtSn catalysts, TOF values based on CO or H2 chemisorption have no practical significance.
Effect of Regeneration Procedures As mentioned above, lower alkane dehydrogenation catalysts require frequent regenerations in air at high tem- peratures. These treatments can be detrimental to the dis- persion of the metal and the interaction between the metal andpromoter(35).Inthiswork,wehaveinvestigatedtheef- fects of such treatments on the performance of PtSn/SiO2 catalysts.
As shown in the TPRs of Fig. 3, when the SI sample was treated in air at 500C for increasing periods of time, the H2 consumption peak associated with PtSn alloy signifi- cantly decreased while those ascribed to unalloyed Pt and unalloyed Sn increased. This segregation was also observed in the co-impregnated catalysts which started with a much higher extent of PtSn interaction. As shown in Fig. 4, the TPR peak at intermediate temperatures decreased with in- creasing oxidation temperature while the consumption at lower (Pt-rich) and higher (Sn-rich) temperatures gradu- ally increased. Finally, a similar segregation phenomenon was observed when the coked catalyst was regenerated at 500C in air. In this case, the splitting of the peaks was even more pronounced (see Fig. 5). It is interesting to consider the important differences observed in the TPR profiles of the samples of the OX (and REG) series with those that we call fresh. One can note that, even though the fresh samples were oxidized at 400C and then reduced at 500C,they were clearly different from those of the OX and REG series which had an extra oxidation and reduction cycle.
TEM can also be used to support the segregation theory.
Previous TEM studies on PtSn (19) have found that ox- idation at 550C for 1 h resulted in severe morphological changes in the intermetallic particles. The Sn in the alloys formed on oxide and migrated to the surface of the particle.
SnO2 formed a ring around the edge of the particle in con- tact with the SiO2 support. The Pt did not form an oxide but went to FCC Pt at the core of the particle. Subsequent 18-h reduction (650C) resulted in complete recombination of the alloys. In our case, the TEM of OX500 after reduction for 1 h shows heterogeneous particles that are not present in the TEM of the fresh sample. We postulate that some re- combination of the alloy may have occurred but that short reduction times after oxidation are not sufficient for total recombination of the alloy, leaving a particle with segre- gated Pt and Sn regions.
It is important to determine whether the proposed dis- ruption of the alloys and metal segregation phenomena have an important effect on the catalytic properties. In fact, as demonstrated in this work, the effects may certainly be dramatic. Figure 11 shows that the reduction/oxidation treatment resulted in a large increase in the amount of coke deposited on the PtSn (CI) sample. At the same time, the alloy disruption caused by the oxidation treatment resulted in an important drop in conversion as illustrated in Fig. 17 for the co-impregnated PtSn (CI) sample.
The oxidation and regeneration treatments also altered the monometallic Pt catalyst, but the effects were differ- ent from those on the PtSn samples. For example, the amount of coke deposited during 2 min in isobutane on the oxidized Pt catalysts was about the same as that de- posited on the fresh catalyst. However, the TPO shows that on the former, the carbon deposits are more refractory. This change could be due to an increase in the Pt particle size,which are typically observed when Pt is heated in oxygen at high temperatures (36). However, as shown in Table 3 the change in chemisorption capacity was not very pronounced.
It is possible that even though the overall metallic area did not change much upon the reduction/oxidation cycle, the type of exposed crystallographic planes changed, causing a change in the coking process. Studies on model Pt catalysts (37) have shown that graphitic carbon deposition occurs much more readily on flat terraces than on edges and cor- ners. Therefore, if the reduction/oxidation cycle results in an increase in the density of flat planes, we might expect an increase in deposition of graphitic carbon.
ISOBUTANE DEHYDROGENATION ON PtSn/SiO2 CATALYSTS 93 As opposed to the reduced/oxidized samples, the regen- erated monometallic Pt catalysts showed less coke than the corresponding fresh samples. This result can again be ex- plained in terms of the presence of refractory carbon de- posits left on the surface after the regeneration which can act as diluting species breaking up Pt ensembles and reduc- ing the rate of coke formation.
The observed trend in coke formation on the monometal- lic catalysts was paralleled by that of the rates of deactiva- tion. The oxidized monometallic samples, which exhibited a high rate of coke formation, showed a much higher rate of deactivation than the fresh and regenerated catalysts and a more pronounced variation in selectivity. Also, the initial selectivity was lower for the OX500 sample than for the other two samples, which is consistent with the presence of flat Pt planes, more active for hydrogenolysis and coke for- mation. This sample rapidly formed coke so it deactivated and increased selectivity more rapidly than the other two samples.
The activity studies showed that both the oxidation and the regeneration of the bimetallic PtSn catalysts at 500C resulted in a great loss of activity and selectivity. The de- crease in activity can be due to segregation or partial de- struction of the PtSn alloy which results in an increase in the deactivation due to coking. Comparison of the TPO profiles for the fresh and OX500 PtSn (CI) with that for the fresh and OX500 Pt samples show that after oxidation at 500C a high-temperature carbon peak forms as in the case of OX500 Pt. This could indicate that some of the al- loy has been destroyed leaving behind patches of unalloyed Pt, on which the formation of the graphitic carbon is more favorable. The OX500 and REG500 bimetallic PtSn (CI) samples still form less carbon than the pure Pt sample, but almost four times the amount found on the fresh bimetal- lic sample. Comparison of Figs. 16 and 17 shows that the REG500 bimetallic sample PtSn (CI) retained more of its initial activity than the OX500 sample. This difference can be explained by the same argument used above for the monometallic catalyst, the carbon not removed during the regeneration hinders the coke formation on the unalloyed Pt regions.
To explain the changes in catalytic activities and proper- ties experienced by the PtSn (CI) and PtSn (CIC) cata- lysts after reduction/oxidation cycles and regeneration at 500C we may not need to postulate the complete segrega- tion of the metals in separate particles. Based on the surface enrichment model observed on the PtSn and the PtRh al- loys and the TEM evidence of Chojnacki and Schmidt (19),we can speculate that, after reduction and before the treat- ment in air, the particle is composed of a PtSn alloy. Un- der oxidizing conditions at high temperatures, the Sn forms an oxide and, at the expense of the subsurface layer, the exterior becomes rich in Sn. The Pt, which does not form an oxide, is metallic and becomes the core of the particle.
Reduction at high temperatures results in the destruction of the oxide and possibly redistribution of the Sn, opening patches of pure Pt. Although the thermodynamically most stable configuration would be the complete recombination of the alloy (7, 19), short reduction times do not allow for this to occur. Consequently, after reduction, the bimetallic particles have become heterogeneous, with Sn-rich regions interdispersed with Pt-rich regions. It is even possible that pure Pt ensembles are present allowing for the formation of more refractory carbon to form on the surface under subsequent exposure to reaction conditions. The dramatic consequences of the reduction/oxidation treatments on the catalytic properties of silica-supported PtSn catalysts demonstrated in this work should be taken into account when the regenerability of a dehydrogenation catalyst is considered for practical applications.
CONCLUSIONS
In this contribution we have shown that the addition of Sn can significantly improve the catalytic behavior of Pt/SiO2 catalysts for the dehydrogenation of isobutane conducted under severely deactivating conditions, i.e., at 500C and without the addition of hydrogen. The main conclusions of this study are the following:• The promoting effect of Sn strongly depends on the method employed in the preparation. Catalysts prepared by co-impregnation, particularly when the solvent is an aque- ous solution containing HCl, result in a high extent of PtSn interaction. By contrast, sequential impregnation results in a large fraction of unalloyed Pt. When H2 is not added to the feed, this fraction of unalloyed Pt rapidly deactivates. • In choosing a preparation method, one needs to max- imize the degree of PtSn interaction rather than maxi- mizing the metal dispersion because it is the fraction of alloyed Pt the one that will be responsible for the sustained activity. • High-temperature treatments in air of previously re- duced PtSn samples are detrimental for the catalytic prop- erties. After these treatments, the rate of deactivation due to coke formation greatly increases. It is postulated that a PtSn segregation resulting in disruption of the alloy struc- ture is responsible for this effect. Reduction after oxidation results in some recombination of the alloy, but long times and high temperatures are necessary for complete recom- bination. • CO and hydrogen adsorption does not take place to a great extent on the PtSn alloys, the small amount mea- sured occurs mostly on unalloyed Pt. Since, in the absence of added H2, this fraction of the catalyst is rapidly deacti- vated, TOF values based on H/Pt or CO/Pt values have no practical significance. 94
STAGG ET AL.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 