<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, is conducted through a combination of experimental techniques and theoretical calculations. This process is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research because it allows for the validation of theoretical predictions with experimental data. By comparing the results from DFT modeling with surface science experiments, researchers can gain insights into the unique chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces, such as the Ni/Pt system, which displays novel catalytic behavior due to the interaction between the subsurface Ni and the surface Pt atoms. This interaction leads to a shift in the d-band center of the surface Pt atoms, resulting in a reduction in the adsorption energy of hydrogen and olefins compared to pure Pt or Ni surfaces. The combination of DFT and experimental techniques provides a powerful tool for the rational design of bimetallic catalysts with improved activity and selectivity for various chemical reactions, including the low-temperature hydrogenation of olefins. The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research. This process allows us to determine the precise atomic structure of the bimetallic surfaces, which is essential for accurate DFT calculations. The structural information obtained through characterization techniques such as Auger electron spectroscopy (AES), temperature-programmed desorption (TPD), and high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS) provides the necessary input for DFT modeling. This modeling, in turn, helps us understand the electronic properties of the surfaces, such as the d-band center, which is crucial for predicting the adsorption energies of molecules like hydrogen and ethylene. The combination of experimental characterization and theoretical calculations enables a deeper understanding of the catalytic properties of bimetallic surfaces, facilitating the rational design of catalysts with improved activity and selectivity. The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, is conducted through a series of advanced surface science techniques and theoretical calculations. This process is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research. The detailed structural information obtained from surface science techniques allows for accurate modeling of the bimetallic surfaces, which is essential for DFT calculations. These calculations provide insights into the electronic structure and bonding characteristics of the bimetallic surfaces, which are critical for understanding their catalytic properties. The combination of experimental data and theoretical calculations enables a comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of the bimetallic surfaces, which is essential for the rational design of advanced catalysts.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          通过在Pt(111)单晶或多晶Pt基底上沉积Ni单层来合成Ni/Pt双金属表面的表征是通过实验技术和理论计算的组合进行的。这一过程对于结构建模、DFT计算以及我们在高级表面科学和催化研究背景下对这些双金属表面的电子和化学性质的全面理解至关重要，因为它允许将理论预测与实验数据进行验证。通过比较DFT建模的结果与表面科学实验的结果，研究人员可以深入了解双金属表面的独特化学性质，例如Ni/Pt系统，由于表面Ni和表面Pt原子之间的相互作用，显示出新颖的催化行为。这种相互作用导致表面Pt原子的d带中心的偏移，导致氢和烯烃的吸附能与纯Pt或Ni表面相比降低。DFT和实验技术的结合为合理设计具有改进的活性和选择性的双金属催化剂提供了强大的工具，用于各种化学反应，包括烯烃的低温氢化。在高级表面科学和催化研究的背景下，对通过在Pt(111)单晶或多晶Pt基底上沉积Ni单层制备的Ni/Pt双金属表面进行表征，对于结构建模、DFT计算以及我们对这些双金属表面的电子和化学性质的全面理解至关重要。这一过程使我们能够确定双金属表面的精确原子结构，这对于准确的DFT计算至关重要。通过Auger电子光谱（AES）、温度程序脱附（TPD）和高分辨率电子能量损失光谱（HREELS）等表征技术获得的结构信息为DFT建模提供了必要的输入。反过来，这种建模帮助我们理解表面的电子性质，如d带中心，这对于预测像氢和乙烯这样的分子的吸附能至关重要。实验表征和理论计算的结合使我们能够更深入地理解双金属表面的催化性质，从而促进具有改进的活性和选择性的催化剂的合理设计。通过一系列先进的表面科学技术和理论计算，对在Pt(111)单晶或多晶Pt基底上沉积Ni单层制备的Ni/Pt双金属表面进行表征。这一过程对于结构建模、DFT计算以及我们对这些双金属表面在高级表面科学和催化研究背景下的电子和化学性质的全面理解至关重要。从表面科学技术中获得的详细结构信息允许对双金属表面进行准确建模，这对于DFT计算至关重要。这些计算提供了对双金属表面电子结构和键合特性的洞察，这对于理解其催化性质至关重要。实验数据和理论计算的结合使我们能够全面理解双金属表面的电子和化学性质，这对于合理设计高级催化剂至关重要。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
