Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to ethylene preference and thermodynamic constraints causing catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, highlighting the need for innovative technologies to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce significant greenhouse gas emissions and co-products. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation, albeit with lower activity and higher production costs. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a significant advantage. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of reducing propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for innovative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy demands. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion (Quote 4 and 5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched current industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation, with the highest reported propene yield under O2 lean-conditions being around 40%. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, requiring diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds to the cost, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to abundant low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, boasting favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and rely on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues, potentially causing coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are advantages, but its use requires precise temperature control and the development of suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP mitigates these issues by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's ability to inhibit coke formation. Oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity for propene but can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to avoid explosive conditions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Despite oxygen's benefits in boosting propylene yields, it poses risks of over-oxidation and explosive scenarios, especially with higher conversion rates due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the declining propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields. Oxidant selection is critical, with F2 and Cl2 being unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues, I2 reactions being slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine offering more feasibility but requiring a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and centralization, limiting their efficiency and adaptability. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative, but faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. The need for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, making dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP increasingly significant. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with the added benefit of CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature, highlighting a limitation of this method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar hurdles. Oxidant choice, particularly oxygen, raises safety concerns, affecting commercial viability. Propane oxydehydrogenation's potential for high conversion and selectivity remains elusive, with significant cracking at temperatures above 700 C, hindering its commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use can lead to propane over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more economical and potentially efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, as highlighted in quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods due to low yields and equilibrium limitations, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, yet over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers potential in PDH by utilizing CO2 and reducing coke formation, though rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction remains a hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production methods like steam cracking face high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer, readily available soft oxidant mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges due to growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints in dehydrogenation leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP directly produces propylene from propane, aligning with market needs and offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns. The effectiveness of catalysts and innovative process designs will determine the success of ODHP as a competitive technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. However, it has its own challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen increases propylene yields due to higher reactivity but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires robust catalysts. N2O offers higher selectivity and lower deactivation rates but has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation, but ODHP using SO2 as an oxidant enhances selectivity at high temperatures. Adding SO2 increases propane conversion yet decreases propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperatures, over 973 K, for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to address these, potentially overcoming endothermic issues and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, but none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, aligning with the goal of maintaining high propylene selectivity under conditions that promote high propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route to propylene, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires controlled conditions and diluents for safety, increasing costs due to oxygen separation from air and the need for precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and rely on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP's limitations, especially in oxidant selection, are significant. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed, risking the combustion of desirable dehydrogenation products. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and selectivity losses with increased conversion, as propene can re-adsorb and oxidize to carbon oxides. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields and selectivity, worsened by the shift towards ethane use, decreasing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address these issues by offering higher propylene yields, yet it is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, with a maximum reported yield of 30%. The selection of oxidants is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling inefficiencies; bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The key is finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, potentially reducing co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization as a promising strategy, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include maintaining high propane conversion and selectivity, with selectivity declining as conversion increases. Propane cracking at high temperatures produces various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges. Oxidant selection, especially using oxygen, poses safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential is hindered by these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy demands, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs, emissions, and energy use while avoiding over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive and have low propylene selectivity. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures and costly catalysts. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, offering advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, underscoring the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative that overcomes thermodynamic constraints but faces over-oxidation challenges. Soft oxidants, particularly CO2, offer a viable solution by utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation, though catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. CO2 acts as a coke remover and can shift the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene yield. Chromium and gallium-based catalysts are effective in PDH with CO2, but rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction to Cr(III) limits their use.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet demand, especially in Western Europe, due to a preference for ethylene [1]. Dehydrogenation is constrained by thermodynamics and plagued by rapid catalyst deactivation from coking [2]. ODHP presents a direct route to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference between feed and product, with CO2 production adding environmental concerns [13]. The catalyst's performance, including activity for alkane conversion and selectivity to desired products, is crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces issues such as high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner alternative. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly affects product selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not discuss challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacities, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements, leading to the exploration of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 modifies the dehydrogenation pathway, lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion by consuming hydrogen. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy needs, and coke formation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these, offering an exothermic process with reduced coke. Yet, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion while curbing complete oxidation, though none match current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents as a more energy-efficient and simpler alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, direct route to propylene. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and precise control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and accurate dosing is critical to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas's low-cost ethene, highlights the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, offers advantages over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and necessitates costly oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control and can affect catalyst performance. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical to overcome these challenges and ensure ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities and risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, as propene re-adsorbs and oxidizes, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene as a by-product, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, decreasing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application, and bromine reactions need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, prompting interest in alternatives like ODHP, which boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, plus CO2 utilization, yielding hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, despite literature gaps.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing various by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, presents safety concerns and process upsets, impacting the commercialization potential of propane oxydehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity without over-oxidation risks, whereas oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, underscoring the oxidant's critical role.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is critical. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes reactions exothermic but risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures but struggles with overoxidation, affecting selectivity. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Traditional propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation is a concern. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH offers a soft oxidant option, utilizing CO2 and aiding coke removal, but catalyst deactivation due to coke and chromium reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly resolves these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints leading to catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene with improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, and CO2 production adds environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a more direct route with potentially lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion but at the cost of lower propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting its advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which suppresses over-oxidation and minimizes carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming these limitations (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to mitigate these issues due to their stability and surface area, though none have matched current industrial yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient and simpler alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. To address this, CO2 is proposed as a milder oxidant, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route to propylene. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, mainly via steam cracking, faces challenges like high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and costly oxygen separation. Precise temperature control is vital to prevent catalyst deactivation, and suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. It can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, reducing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand necessitates dedicated propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields, but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative, but it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Challenges include the need for efficient catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand reveals limitations in current production methods, compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, potentially serving as a CO2 utilization method with syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and increased propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, with oxygen use presenting safety concerns that impact commercial viability. Achieving high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive, with selectivity declining rapidly with conversion and propane cracking becoming significant above 700 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high costs, energy demands, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions compared to steam cracking. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, like dehydrogenation, have thermodynamic limits for propane conversion and suffer from catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative that overcomes thermodynamic limitations but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a promising approach in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation, though catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. The presence of CO2 shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene yield through a two-step pathway or direct oxidation, as reported by Bartholomew (1984) and Michorczyk et al. (2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using O2 can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a safer oxidant solves this, offering a milder and readily available alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of alkane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, significantly boosting propane conversion. However, this comes at the cost of lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring temperatures exceeding 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant, addresses these by initiating the reaction without high temperatures (Quote 2). However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion while maintaining stability (Quotes 4-5). Yet, no system matches current industrial yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative methods, faces high costs and sustainability challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. To mitigate this, the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy demands and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, but faces limitations, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to over-oxidation, forming CO and CO2, and requires controlled conditions and diluents for safety, increasing costs and complexity.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke formation. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, potentially causing hotspots and coke formation, which deactivates the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success, balancing oxygen's benefits with its risks.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via cracking and dehydrogenation, faces high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production through SC and FCC suffers from low yields and selectivity, with a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial use. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, prompting interest in dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP. This method boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization yielding hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unexplored challenges, impacting its potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, especially using oxygen, poses safety issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's goal of high conversion and selectivity remains elusive, with commercialization distant.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions and energy use. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP amplifies its benefits, but oxygen risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion but struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalysts, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids overoxidation, decreases coke, and enhances propane conversion, offering advantages over O2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limitations, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and potentially shifting the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these, making ODHP a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production in Western Europe, where ethylene is favored in steam cracking. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency. ODHP, an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency but using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a key environmental and economic concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases and co-products. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially energy-efficient route with fewer co-products. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP addresses by employing SO2 as an oxidant, improving selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, the addition of SO2 boosts propane conversion but compromises propylene selectivities compared to using pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, prompting exploration of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion by consuming H2, unlike O2, which suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, but oxygen can cause overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, addressing conventional method limitations. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can lead to temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. Adding H2S to the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation, though oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses at higher conversions.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields and selectivity. Ethane's preference in steam cracking further reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 is slow and requires high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, needs a higher propane ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and limit remote gas reserve utilization due to large plant requirements. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, controlling selectivity, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. Propane's weaker CH and CC bonds pose a greater selectivity challenge in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, prompting interest in dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP. This method boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it a promising chemical CO2 utilisation technique. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking significantly increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly using oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and byproduct generation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits, but oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant significantly affects propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, promises more efficient conversion but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids over-oxidation but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, potentially leading to more coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalysts, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate deep oxidation, decrease coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium constraints. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that lead to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces a selectivity challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is advantageous, utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Yet, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene is favored. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance is crucial for economic viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases and co-products. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP increases propane conversion at high temperatures, but this comes at the cost of lower propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are not well-documented in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which uses an oxidant to initiate reactions, addresses these issues (Quote 2). However, using oxygen can lead to overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are studied to mitigate these issues, though none have matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity due to its exothermic nature. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Recent studies suggest that using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, making ODHP a promising but still developing alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2. ODHP has potential efficiency improvements over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%, requiring careful control to prevent explosions.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, especially as ethane use shifts propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but faces a cap at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more feasible option, but polyhalogenation selectivity issues still limit propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a chemical strategy and producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific, less-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production involve achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, hindered by propylene's higher reactivity and temperature-induced propane cracking. ODHP, while aiming to improve on these, faces similar issues, notably in oxidant selection, where oxygen presents safety concerns, echoing the elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity, which are significant limitations to consider.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces economic and energy efficiency challenges, with low selectivity. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and efficient conversion but has limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though safer, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers a solution with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, including catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an alternative but faces challenges like low conversion and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity is an issue due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers benefits by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. However, PDH with CO2 leads to rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as evidenced by studies showing drastic deactivation of Ga2O3 and the role of Cr reduction in chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, O2 use can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP offers a safer, milder solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and limitations like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking challenge current production methods [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal dehydrogenation [8], but using oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases and co-products. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potential energy savings and fewer co-products. However, ODHP faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxygen's high reactivity can cause rapid catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for robust catalyst development. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP targets equilibrium limitations in propylene production, using SO2 as an oxidant to increase propane conversion at high temperatures. This boosts selectivity per pass but results in lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, highlighting the method's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which can lead to over-oxidation and increased carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by incorporating an oxidant, aims to mitigate these, potentially reducing endothermic effects and coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH selectivity and activity, though they haven't matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating controlled conditions and diluents. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is vital to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of propene's facile over-oxidation to CO and CO2. This method is exothermic at lower temperatures and prevents coke deposition, yet must address over-oxidation to be viable.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy demands and low selectivity, while ODHP is more energy-efficient and selective. However, ODHP's use of oxygen can lead to overoxidation and requires costly oxygen separation. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent catalyst deactivation, and suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but can limit alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It poses risks of over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Despite these challenges, oxygen's use in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, though it can lead to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene as a by-product, with declining propylene/ethylene ratios due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is limited to about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to traditional processes. An attractive feature is CO2 utilization, yielding hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, impacting its potential as a dedicated synthesis process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At elevated temperatures, propane cracking becomes significant, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges. Oxygen selection in ODHP introduces safety concerns, impacting process reliability. The elusive goal of combining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation highlights the commercialization hurdles.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and greenhouse gas emissions compared to steam cracking. However, using oxygen leads to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependency on depleting oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion and economic benefits. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP using molecular oxygen offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, but it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, including catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative but faces challenges like low conversion and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited process, addresses these issues but has selectivity problems due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), as a soft oxidant in PDH, presents an interesting solution by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy demand, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these problems, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges meeting growing demand and are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP presents a direct route to produce propylene, aligning with market needs and offering improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs, mainly due to CO2 production. The effectiveness of catalysts and innovative process designs are crucial for the success of ODHP technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, with oxygen boosting propylene yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring costly separation. N2O enhances selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant choice is critical, balancing yield, catalyst stability, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP enhances propylene production by overcoming equilibrium limitations, offering higher selectivity per pass, particularly when SO2 is used as an oxidant at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 boosts propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, offers an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity. Despite progress, no system matches the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative petroleum processing, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Recent studies suggest that using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this limitation, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking. Despite promising yields in propene, ODHP's results remain below levels of industrial interest, emphasizing the need for advancements in catalysts and reactor configurations to enhance selectivity under conditions promoting high propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more efficient route, directly converting propane to propylene. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, increasing costs with oxygen separation from air, and requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas's low-cost ethene. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions and lower temperatures, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen increases selectivity but also costs. Oxygen can cause hotspots in the catalyst bed, complicating temperature control. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success, requiring precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. It can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand necessitates dedicated propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine is more feasible but requires a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and limit remote natural gas utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation, a challenge due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane. Managing the exothermic reaction is crucial for safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, prompting interest in dedicated methods like ODHP. This process boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization, making it a promising CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges that are under-documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges, notably with oxidant choice, where oxygen presents safety issues. The commercial potential of propane oxydehydrogenation remains unfulfilled, highlighting the difficulty in combining high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and byproduct production. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, promises more efficient conversion and economic benefits. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP's limitation lies in controlling propylene selectivity, as overoxidation risks are inherent. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant over oxygen can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP, an exothermic process, avoids equilibrium constraints but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, presents advantages by utilizing greenhouse gas and facilitating coke removal, shifting PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant solves these issues, offering a safer, milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges, particularly in Western Europe where demand for propylene exceeds that of ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its effectiveness. ODHP presents an exothermic, energy-efficient alternative to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are critical for ODHP's economic viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs. However, it has challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves selectivity but may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP seeks to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass, particularly at high temperatures, but increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand requires more efficient production methods. DDP's limitations, including high temperature requirements, are addressed by ODHP, which uses CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, and it increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these, but oxygen can cause overoxidation and instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help control overoxidation and improve selectivity, though they haven't yet matched industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP struggles with selectivity to olefins when using oxygen as an oxidant, due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant can mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, making ODHP a promising but still developing alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a supply-demand gap for propylene, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP, favored for its thermodynamics and catalyst stability, must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and selective, with reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP is more efficient and selective, but using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to carbon oxides and requires costly oxygen separation. Oxygen's affordability and abundance are countered by the need for strict temperature control to prevent overoxidation, which can lower propylene yield and cause catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Effective catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures, which inhibits coke formation, thanks to the presence of oxygen. Oxygen is a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, but it also leads to over-oxidation, decreasing yields, and requires careful management to avoid explosive mixtures. H2S addition enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, oxygen's unselective reactions limit alkene selectivities, and extensive selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) holds potential but is limited to a 30% yield due to propylene's further oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine, though more feasible, still grapples with polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Selecting catalysts that efficiently activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety are specific challenges, as the weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, potentially compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 as an oxidant presenting a promising CO2 utilisation method and syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity at higher conversion rates and managing propane cracking. The use of oxygen as an oxidant introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy demands, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective, and potentially cost-effective alternative with lower emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits by saving energy and promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen's use can decrease propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, underscoring the oxidant's critical role in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including dehydrogenation, are limited by high energy requirements and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and depend on depleting oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion process. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but faces issues with propylene overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers an alternative with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for a more selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds production from conventional methods, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an intriguing solution, utilizing CO2 and potentially enhancing propylene yield through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation, yet faces catalyst deactivation from coke formation and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy demand, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. However, O2 in ODHP poses flammability and over-oxidation risks, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking favoring ethylene and FCC with limited propylene output, struggles to meet rising demand, especially in Western Europe. ODHP presents an exothermic, energy-efficient alternative to endothermic dehydrogenation, directly addressing thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP presents a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. N2O as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. Oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, improving selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high temperature requirement for significant yields is a limitation. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane, releasing heat, and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 minimizes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, faces challenges. ODHP is a more energy-efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air adds to costs. Precise oxygen dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and undesired byproducts, requiring costly oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control and risks catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are vital for balancing oxygen's cost-effectiveness with its potential to reduce propylene yield and introduce byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, which minimizes coke formation. Oxygen, a favored oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but poses risks of over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. Interestingly, H2S in the feedstock can boost propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. However, oxygen's unselective combustion limits alkene selectivities, particularly at higher conversions, leading to reduced propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking struggles with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the trend towards ethane use and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and thermodynamic issues, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and require large-scale plants, hindering remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, where using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. A key challenge is developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, increasing interest in dedicated synthesis like ODHP. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, producing syngas. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly using oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, highlighting the elusive goal of combining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits by promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, underscoring the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising alternative due to its exothermic nature, which avoids thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents new challenges, mainly controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using molecular oxygen addresses these issues by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, beneficial for PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, shifting the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, enhancing safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    