Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene from propane, potentially aligning better with market demand. Its exothermal nature improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. [1] [2] [3] [8] [13]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route to propylene with fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O, while improving propene selectivity and reducing deep oxidation, may have lower activity and higher costs. The oxidant choice is critical, balancing yield, selectivity, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a key advantage. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating new, economic techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperatures needed for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. It also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to address these issues, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces challenges like overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway risks. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, but has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity, necessitating careful control and the use of diluents. Oxygen's use also increases costs due to separation from air and requires precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and reliance on depleting petroleum. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and potential catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges and ensure successful ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It also risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like SC and FCC, struggle with low propylene yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP offers higher propylene yields but faces issues with propylene's consecutive oxidation, capping yields at about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large centralized plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make controlling selectivity in ODHP more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially making selective processes like propane dehydrogenation more significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilisation as an attractive feature. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity as conversion increases and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and energy use compared to traditional methods, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen as an oxidant decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high operating temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect can shift the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidize propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Yet, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and effectively mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. This process, while promising, must balance environmental and economic considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses this by using SO2 as an oxidant, which notably boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures through heat release and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to mitigate overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating the use of diluents and careful control of reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation into CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to hotspots in the catalyst bed, affecting temperature control. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. The presence of oxygen can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. The expanding polypropylene market increases demand for alternative propylene production methods. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically promising, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions such as cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The process requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for alternatives to steam and catalytic cracking, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, emerges as a promising method, boasting higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes. ODHP's use of CO2 for chemical utilisation is attractive, though literature overlooks oxygen's specific challenges as an oxidant, an area requiring further exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At elevated temperatures, propane cracking yields undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety concerns, impacting its commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and saves energy compared to traditional methods, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant leads to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative, using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, high costs of precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation of active species. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation of propane remains a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect can shift the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidize propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. However, O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP is safer, milder, and more available, mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Catalyst performance is crucial for economic viability, and innovative process designs are needed to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, an advantage over conventional methods. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers an alternative, reducing operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes some limitations, potentially reducing energy input and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no catalytic system matches current industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to avoid over-oxidation, highlighting the method's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, as noted in quote [1]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition, as highlighted in quote [2]. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as mentioned in quote [3].", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation and undesired byproducts, impacting yield and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and potential catalyst deactivation. To address these, developing suitable catalysts and reactor designs is essential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by declining propylene/ethylene ratios due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2, though more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and reliance on large centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilization as a by-product, addressing environmental concerns. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene oxidizes more readily than propane, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant in ODHP presents safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high costs, energy consumption, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective process, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits by saving energy and avoiding over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures required for acceptable yields (Quote 2), high costs of precious metal catalysts (Quote 5), and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation of active species (Quote 6). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces the challenge of controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low conversion and yield due to thermodynamic constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is an alternative that utilizes greenhouse gas and removes coke. Its promoting effect involves hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Yet, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and effectively mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene from propane, addressing these issues with improved energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. New technologies are needed to overcome dehydrogenation's disadvantages, and ODHP presents a promising alternative, though challenges remain in catalyst performance and process design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and dilution of propylene yield by co-products. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene, with lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a key advantage. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures exceeding 973 K for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which promotes over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion (Quote 4), though none have matched industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air increases process costs, requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, as noted in quote 1. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising alternative, offering exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and preventing coke deposition, as highlighted in quote 2. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as mentioned in quote 3.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It also risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it has its own challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, control selectivity, and manage the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as a chemical CO2 utilisation strategy, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets, impacting the commercialization potential of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by high energy requirements and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and unfavorable thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and potentially mitigating coke formation. The promoting effect of CO2 involves hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, due to a preference for ethylene production and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion, exacerbated by coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O, while improving propene selectivity and reducing deep oxidation, may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by significantly enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2's addition boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more economic techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, using oxygen introduces overoxidation risks and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to mitigate overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, as it's exothermic unlike traditional endothermic methods. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, making the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2. [1] highlights the supply-demand gap, [2] underscores ODHP's thermodynamic benefits, and [3] identifies the over-oxidation issue.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like cracking and dehydrogenation face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking (SC) and fluidic catalytic cracking (FCC) faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while the growing polypropylene market increases propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limitations require high temperatures, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenges include finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to selectivity decline with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges, especially with oxidant selection, where oxygen poses safety and process issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially using CO2 as an oxidant to save energy and reduce emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative that avoids thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own issues, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents its own challenges, particularly in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, ODHP using oxygen as an oxidant has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, underscoring the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a promising soft oxidant for PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, offering a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to favoring ethylene over propylene [1]. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, aligning better with market demand. Its exothermic nature improves energy efficiency over endothermic processes [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance and process design are critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct conversion to propylene and carbon dioxide, but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, an advantage over conventional methods. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures through heat release and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are investigated to suppress complete oxidation and maintain selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complexity, and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, it has limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, as noted in quote 1. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, as highlighted in quote 2. However, preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a more stable form, remains a key challenge, as mentioned in quote 3.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can also lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet presents risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and require large centralized plants, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. The challenge is finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating, ensuring safety. Propane's weaker CH and CC bonds make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation process. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process complexities.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental impacts, and byproduct formation. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits by saving energy and promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which suffer from thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these issues by operating at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges like high operating temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for these benefits but also presents this limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant alternative, offering benefits in PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant mitigates these problems, offering a safer and more readily available alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, and are constrained by thermodynamics and coking issues [1][2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance and process design are crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and dilution of propylene yield by co-products. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by significantly increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures, an advantage over conventional methods. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but results in lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are not discussed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, while minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and improve ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking. (Quote 1) highlights the higher energy efficiency of ODHP compared to traditional methods, while (Quote 4) underscores the limitation of using oxygen, which can over-oxidize both the feed and the produced olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation reactions, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, motivating on-purpose technologies like oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially improving efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant choice. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, leading to temperature control issues and potential catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and catalyst development are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like cracking and dehydrogenation face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It also risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the requirement for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The process requires catalysts that can efficiently activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods, such as steam cracking and catalytic cracking, which may compromise co-product yields, highlight the need for alternatives. Propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is attractive for chemical CO2 utilization, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges not well-addressed in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs, lower emissions, save energy, and promote selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, while avoiding overoxidation risks, doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, high catalyst costs, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically unfavorable, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. Its promoting effect may shift the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidize propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing carbon dioxide as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these problems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit alkane conversion [2]. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses this by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures through the release of reaction heat and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and oxygen separation from air increases costs. Precise oxygen dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and hotspots in the catalyst bed, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for mitigating these challenges and successfully implementing ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is offset by risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's selectivity promotion is counterbalanced by selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's further oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large centralized plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The process requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may not meet needs without impacting co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, like ODHP, becomes significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas. Literature lacks exploration of oxygen use in ODHP, a key oxidant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, with propylene's higher reactivity leading to selectivity decline. At high temperatures, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces similar issues, especially with selectivity at higher conversion rates and increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, adds safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially increasing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges due to high operating temperatures (Quote 2), high costs of precious metal catalysts (Quote 5), and catalyst deactivation from coke formation and spatial separation of active species (Quote 6). Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks (Quote 7). The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and promote propane conversion (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but also results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a promising soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and aiding in coke removal. The promoting effect of CO2 shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these problems, offering a safer, milder, and more accessible alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, aligning better with market needs. Its exothermal nature improves energy efficiency over endothermal processes [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance and process design are critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability, with N2O showing promise for higher propylene selectivity and lower catalyst deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a key advantage over conventional methods. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The literature lacks discussion on oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, making oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant a promising alternative. CO2 reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and increases conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation (Quote 4). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, leading to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages like exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is needed to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, affecting propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene selectivity and is declining due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but faces challenges in oxidant selection. F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it has limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge with oxygen includes the need for efficient catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially making propane dehydrogenation processes like ODHP more significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as an added benefit. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges, a topic underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs, lower emissions, save energy, and promote selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen as an oxidant leads to over-oxidation of propane to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and rapid catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints but risks overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides when using oxygen as an oxidant, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition. The competitive adsorption of CO2 on catalyst surfaces can also affect performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures required for acceptable yields, as in propane dehydrogenation (quote 2), and high costs of precious metal catalysts prone to deactivation (quotes 5-6). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a lower reaction temperature due to its exothermic nature (quote 7). However, ODHP struggles with overoxidation, risking propylene conversion to carbon monoxide and dioxide (quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of O2 can mitigate overoxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion by utilizing the produced hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift reaction (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the importance of oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing CO2 and managing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and propane dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a low-energy alternative without catalyst regeneration, overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, leading to poor selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner and more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields due to its reactivity, but risks deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves selectivity and reduces deactivation rates, though it has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant selection is critical in ODHP, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements. CO2, as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing reaction heat. It also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike oxygen, which promotes over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues, potentially reducing energy needs and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces risks of overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face challenges including high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as highlighted by Quote 3.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene selectivity and is declining due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial for safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. Using CO2 in ODHP is attractive for chemical CO2 utilisation, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity as conversion increases and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, with improved selectivity for propylene. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and promote selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can decrease propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, via steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen risks combustion and side reactions, while CO2 can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks. Oxygen's ability to lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic is attractive, but it complicates olefin selectivity. CO2, while effective in consuming hydrogen, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these by reducing reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation of propylene, impacting selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers a solution by enabling lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, ODP's low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates is a drawback, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for lower temperatures but affects selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand due to low conversion and yield, exacerbated by equilibrium limitations and endothermic processes requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising alternative, offering an exothermic, non-equilibrium-limited reaction. However, propylene selectivity remains a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a soft oxidant, presents an opportunity in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), utilizing CO2 and addressing coke issues. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, favoring propylene production through a two-step or one-step pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these problems, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental concerns. New technologies are needed to address these issues, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses the equilibrium limitation of dehydrogenation in propylene production. Using SO2 as an oxidant boosts selectivity at high temperatures and increases propane conversion, though propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP is not discussed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating new, economic techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures by releasing heat from the reaction. It increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes some limitations, offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity (Quote 4), yet none have matched industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology with advantages over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity for propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is offset by risks of over-oxidation and the need for strict reaction control. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, affecting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock and growing demand for propylene. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more feasible alternative, but polyhalogenation selectivity issues limit single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the requirement for large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially making selective processes like propane dehydrogenation more significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, as propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces similar issues, especially with selectivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's potential for commercialization remains elusive due to these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen as an oxidant decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers an alternative with propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a mild oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation has low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium limitations and is endothermic, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and removing coke, with two pathways for promoting propane dehydrogenation. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, but rapid deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction limits their effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and propane dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder, and more readily available solution, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    