Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene and face thermodynamic and coking challenges. ODHP directly meets market needs, offering exothermic energy efficiency. However, oxygen use in ODHP raises energy and fixed costs due to CO2 by-product. Innovative catalysts and designs are crucial for performance enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, with oxygen increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. N2O as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation are addressed by ODHP, which uses SO2 as an oxidant to enhance selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text doesn't address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements, necessitating temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures through hydrogen oxidation and enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2 via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues (Quote 2). However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, yet none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's selectivity to olefins is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant can mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complexity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, suffer from high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, creating undesired byproducts and temperature control issues. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are counterbalanced by the risk of overoxidation and potential for coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and the combustion of desirable products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but also leads to unselective combustion reactions, limiting alkene selectivities and causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides, reducing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. Adding H2S to the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggles with low yields as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced propylene output, while demand rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields, but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and centralized requirements, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection, where oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions for safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane add to the selectivity control challenge in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene highlights the need for alternatives to current production methods, with ODHP emerging as a significant option. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and increased propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing safety concerns with oxidant selection, especially oxygen. The elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation highlights these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy use, costs, environmental issues, and byproduct formation. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective process using CO2 as an oxidant, reducing costs, emissions, and energy consumption. However, O2 use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation have limitations: high-energy input due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge for process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependency on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to increased coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production methods, including steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using molecular oxygen mitigates these issues by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds output from traditional catalytic and steam cracking methods, underscoring the need for alternatives. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is considered but is constrained by low yields and thermodynamic limitations. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process not bound by equilibrium, struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH presents a viable solution, utilizing CO2 and potentially reducing coke formation, a major cause of catalyst deactivation. Oxide catalysts, particularly those with Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, aiding in shifting the equilibrium towards propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and propane dehydrogenation faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers a low-energy solution without catalyst regeneration, overcoming thermodynamic issues. Yet, O2 use can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Employing CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these problems, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces ethylene, challenging current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion (quote [2]). ODHP directly converts propane to propylene, addressing these issues with improved energy efficiency due to its exothermic nature (quote [8]). However, ODHP has limitations, including higher energy losses and increased CO2 production, impacting economic and environmental considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP presents a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. Oxygen's high reactivity can lead to catalyst deactivation, emphasizing the need for robust catalysts. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in dehydrogenation reactions, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity at high temperatures. However, SO2 boosts propane conversion at the cost of lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, highlighting the need for alternative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this issue by lowering operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Additionally, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these issues, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, struggles with high energy consumption. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient alternative, though using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, affecting propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air adds to costs, necessitating precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to abundant low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. Using oxygen in ODHP is cost-effective but risks overoxidation, leading to byproducts and affecting yield. Precise temperature control and catalyst development are key to mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, which inhibits coke formation, thanks to oxygen's presence. Oxygen is a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, but unselective combustion reactions limit alkene selectivities. Oxygen's use can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. While oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, conversion increases lead to selectivity losses due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene increases. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine offers more feasibility, but polyhalogenation selectivity issues limit propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The need for catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating are key challenges. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand pushes for advancements in production methods, with ODHP emerging as a promising alternative. It boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, plus CO2 utilization, making it attractive for chemical CO2 use. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and faces safety concerns from oxidant selection, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP is more energy-efficient and cost-effective, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, which eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like FCC and steam cracking, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) potentially lowers reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers advantages by enabling lower reaction temperatures and inhibiting coke formation. However, it has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for these benefits but also presents the challenge of selectivity, addressing the issues of current methods while introducing its own limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing CO2 and removing coke, shifting the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration needs, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen use in ODHP can lead to flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, can address these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation challenge current production methods [1][2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, impacting environmental and economic considerations [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, but has limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, yet it's costlier and environmentally concerning. The oxidant choice impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, is advantageous at high temperatures with increased selectivity per pass. SO2 enhances propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. DDP is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike O2 which promotes over-oxidation, as seen in thermodynamic calculations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, overcomes these by potentially avoiding high temperatures. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation, leveraging their stability and surface area. Despite advancements, no catalyst matches current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative methods, faces challenges that ODHP addresses by offering higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, leading to deep oxidation and reduced propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates controlled conditions and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, increasing costs and safety concerns.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's impact on propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP, with its favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an edge over non-oxidative methods. However, it must tackle the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a significant hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosions. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous for its high propylene selectivity and low investment, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address these issues by offering higher propylene yields, yet is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, thus limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the significance of propane dehydrogenation processes like ODHP, which offer higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. The use of CO2 in ODHP presents additional benefits. However, employing oxygen as an oxidant introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher reactivity, which reduces selectivity with increased conversion. Above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges, notably propylene's higher reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant is critical yet poses safety concerns, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally impactful, with reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions compared to traditional methods. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high demand and limitations in traditional methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits, offering an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and economic strain. ODHP presents a more economical feedstock and efficient conversion, yet faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but endothermic, can lead to additional coke and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates overoxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, as highlighted in quotes discussing temperature requirements (2), catalyst costs (5), selectivity issues (7), and CO2 benefits (8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion [1]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, ODHP has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst [2].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods due to low yields and equilibrium constraints, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Direct dehydrogenation's high-temperature requirement leads to side reactions and coke formation, necessitating catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH utilizes a greenhouse gas and aids in coke removal, enhancing propylene production by shifting the equilibrium. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. However, O2 in ODHP poses flammability and over-oxidation risks, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant enhances safety and mildness, mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces growing demand and thermodynamic limitations, leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and CO2 production, posing economic and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases and co-products. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potential energy savings and fewer co-products. However, it has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can increase propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, but may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion but leading to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. This highlights the trade-offs of the method in terms of efficiency and product purity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements are addressed by ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant, which reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these, potentially improving thermodynamics and reducing coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity, though they haven't matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. A solution proposed is the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could potentially turn the process exothermic and benefit catalyst coking, mitigating the over-oxidation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to the cost, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can potentially improve efficiency over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, the key challenge is preventing the over-oxidation of propene into CO and CO2, critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, risking catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control is vital to prevent overoxidation and coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are key for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreasing propene yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production through SC and FCC faces low yields as propylene is a by-product, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation, achieving only about 30% yield. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 reactions, though more feasible, require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and centralization, limiting remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection, with oxygen causing side reactions that affect propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for dedicated processes like ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. ODHP's CO2 utilisation for syngas production is an advantage, but using oxygen as an oxidant presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but shares similar challenges, particularly with propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant raises safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances benefits by saving energy and avoiding over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which can decrease propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's limitations lie in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces these issues by lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant prevents deep oxidation, minimizes coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key ODHP limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers advantages with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, but direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces challenges with low conversion and yields, requiring high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is attractive for utilizing CO2 and its role in coke removal, shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation and chromium reduction, as reported by Zheng et al. (2005) and Zhang et al. (2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. O2 use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges due to growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion, exacerbated by coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges. This highlights the need for new technologies that address the limitations of current methods while leveraging the advantages of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially cleaner and more energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation, which ODHP addresses using SO2 as an oxidant, significantly enhancing selectivity at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not discuss specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy consumption, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming the endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity (Quote 4), though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, being exothermic. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption challenges. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient route, but oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, poses limitations. Oxygen can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and its reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, requiring controlled reaction conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, with advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking faces challenges like high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can lead to temperature control issues, reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption and coke formation. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields and posing safety concerns. H2S addition enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in boosting yields, selectivity losses occur with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by a shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation into oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions lack selectivity, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and centralized processing, limiting their efficiency and adaptability. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces challenges in oxidant selection, particularly with oxygen. Oxygen can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, prompting exploration of alternatives. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a chemical CO2 mitigation strategy, and producing hydrogen and syngas. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements but shares similar challenges, notably with oxidant selection, where oxygen use poses safety concerns, hindering its commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits by promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, and resource constraints. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more economical and potentially efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation, as highlighted in quote 2 and 5. ODHP, an alternative, reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature (quote 7), but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant (quote 8) avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, including catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, but direct dehydrogenation is endothermic and limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a potential soft oxidant for PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as reported by Zheng et al. (2005) and Zhang et al. (2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges meeting demand, especially in Western Europe, and are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. ODHP presents an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product [13], highlighting the need for innovative technologies that address environmental and economic considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, with co-product dilution as a downside. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxidant choice impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy for separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion. However, adding SO2 to the feed results in lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs and challenges in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for more economic methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges such as side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by incorporating an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues. However, using oxygen can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally non-oxidative, faces high costs and sustainability challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. A solution involves using CO2 as a mild oxidant, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route to propylene production but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation and increasing costs due to oxygen separation from air.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's impact on propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation to carbon oxides and temperature control issues due to hotspots, which can lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Successful ODHP requires precise temperature control and suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity and yields but can lead to unselective combustion and over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields. Oxygen's use results in selectivity losses with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, with yields potentially dropping below 30%. H2S in the feed mixture can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, needs a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and restrictive, limiting remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which ODHP addresses by offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can be a promising CO2 utilization method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges, underscoring the need for careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include declining selectivity with increased conversion due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 C, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety and process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and greenhouse gas emissions compared to traditional methods. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity, despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the reaction exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can lower temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity. CO2, as an oxidant, prevents overoxidation, reduces coke formation, and boosts propane conversion, making it preferable to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, faces challenges due to low yields, equilibrium limitations, and high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances coke removal and shifts the reaction equilibrium, favoring propylene production. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction presents a limitation. Catalysts containing Cr or Ga show promise in ODHP with CO2, but deactivation remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits, are mitigated by ODHP, which reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet demand, favoring ethylene over propylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its effectiveness. ODHP directly converts propane to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges. New technologies are sought to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, directly converting propane. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant selection is crucial in ODHP, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, offers higher selectivity at elevated temperatures compared to conventional methods. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for more efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements hinder significant yields. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, mitigates these issues by lowering operating temperatures through hydrogen oxidation and heat release. CO2 boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 and prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, could overcome these by initiating reactions without high temperatures. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, like vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, aim to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally relying on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative petroleum processing, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing sustainability and cost concerns. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, leading to CO and CO2 formation and reduced selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and air separation for oxygen increases costs. Precise oxygen dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in steam cracking has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers higher efficiency and selectivity. Oxygen, a cheap and abundant oxidant in ODHP, risks overoxidation, forming byproducts and causing hotspots, leading to temperature control issues and catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are vital for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is offset by risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's selectivity promotion for propene is counterbalanced by selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production through steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking struggles with low selectivity and yields, as propylene is a by-product. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous with high selectivity and low investment, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve propylene yields but is constrained by the consecutive oxidation of propylene, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering the use of remote natural gas reserves. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are required to activate propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. Propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. Using CO2 as an oxidant is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilisation, yielding syngas by-products. However, employing oxygen presents specific, less-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's reactivity, causing selectivity to drop with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP, while aiming to improve conversion and selectivity, shares these issues, particularly with oxygen as an oxidant, introducing safety and process stability concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally impactful. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and depend on depleting oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion process. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, potentially leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, particularly propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges like high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures, but controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also introduces selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity challenges due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but involves rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it preferable.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues highlight the need for innovation. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermic process. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 by-product, illustrating oxidant selection challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene, with oxygen increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) provides higher selectivity and slower deactivation, but at higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to using pure propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for more efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 as an oxidant prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate reactions at lower temperatures, potentially reducing energy input and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via non-oxidative processing of petroleum faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful use in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges, notably high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient alternative but encounters limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially surpassing non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to more stable compounds like CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity but has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and hotspots, affecting temperature control and catalyst activity. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation, and prefers oxygen as an oxidant, which enhances propylene selectivity. However, oxygen can cause selectivity losses and over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Introducing H2S in the feed modifies the reaction pathway, improving propylene selectivity. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking suffers from low yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand necessitates alternative production methods due to co-product yield compromises in current techniques like steam cracking. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation for chemical CO2 and syngas by-product generation. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably using oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process complexities, impacting ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, offering better selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to propane over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP presents a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, while not providing enough heat, consumes hydrogen, avoids over-oxidation, but may increase coke formation and compete for catalyst sites, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation, as seen in the CATOFIN and Oleflex processes. ODHP offers a potential solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP faces the issue of controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. CO2, as an alternative oxidant to oxygen, can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds output from traditional catalytic and steam cracking methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is hindered by low yields due to thermodynamic constraints, necessitating high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke buildup. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limits but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH presents an alternative, utilizing CO2 and potentially reducing coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction, impacting its viability.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy costs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits are addressed by ODHP, offering lower energy use and no catalyst regeneration. However, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, compromising selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations of current methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are constrained by thermodynamics and coking, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP offers an exothermic, direct route to produce propylene from propane, improving energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and offering improved energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient route. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly oxygen separation. N2O improves propene selectivity, reducing deep oxidation risk, but may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant choice is crucial, balancing yield, catalyst stability, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering higher selectivity at high temperatures with SO2 as an oxidant. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by releasing heat and boosts propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2, unlike O2, prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though no system matches current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but selecting the right oxidant is challenging. Oxygen, while effective, can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity. Precise oxygen dosing is vital to prevent over-oxidation and ensure process safety.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers enhanced efficiency and catalyst stability, thanks to favorable thermodynamics and coke prevention. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation into CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, leading to undesired carbon oxides and temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed, which can deactivate the catalyst. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation. Oxygen, a favored oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed boosts propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway, yet selectivity decreases with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, limiting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low yields and selectivity, worsened by the ethane feedstock shift and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically promising, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP could boost yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 is slow and requires high temperatures, and bromine, though more viable, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Key challenges include selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the safety of exothermic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights challenges in current production methods, making dedicated processes like ODHP increasingly significant. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as an added benefit. However, the role of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP is underexplored, marking a critical area for future research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but must overcome selectivity decline and manage propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably the safety issues with oxygen, is crucial for ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially improving selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs, lower emissions, and save energy. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependency on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents an alternative, utilizing economical propane and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't fully address the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP offers a lower temperature alternative but risks overoxidation of propylene to CO and CO2. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for these benefits but also presents the challenge of selectivity, especially in the context of increasing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles with low yields and equilibrium constraints, leading to high-temperature side reactions and coke formation. ODHP, an exothermic process, addresses thermodynamic limitations but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. CO2, as a soft oxidant, shifts the equilibrium towards propylene production and aids in coke removal, making it an eco-friendly option. However, PDH with CO2 is hindered by rapid catalyst deactivation from coke buildup and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly addresses these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations like thermodynamic constraints and coking in current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for new technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process unlike endothermal dehydrogenation, directly produces propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference between feed and product, and CO2 production adds to environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution issues. ODHP presents a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, with oxygen as an oxidant boosting propylene yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. Oxygen's high reactivity can lead to rapid catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for robust catalyst development. The oxidant choice significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. DDP is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields (Quote 2). ODHP with CO2 as a mild oxidant alters the pathway, reducing operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat (Quote 3). CO2 boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy consumption, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by incorporating an oxidant, aims to address these by offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to control complete oxidation and improve ODH activity. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complex processes leading to by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can result in deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation and increasing costs from oxygen separation from air.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, highlights the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP presents advantages: exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability by preventing coke. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use and low selectivity challenges. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, requiring precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances selectivity for propene but can limit alkene selectivities and cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. Despite these, oxygen is highly effective for ODHP, improving propylene yields. H2S in the feed mixture boosts propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, leading to yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, yield low propylene selectivity and are declining due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but faces issues with propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction for safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, highlighting the potential of dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP. This method offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature, affecting its implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures, yielding by-products. ODHP offers improved conversion and selectivity but struggles with selectivity maintenance and propane cracking. Oxidant choice, notably oxygen, poses safety and process issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy use, costs, and environmental impact. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective alternative with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, and avoids over-oxidation. However, O2 use risks over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes leading to high energy input, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents as a more economical alternative with potentially efficient conversion, though it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing limitations of traditional methods and ODHP's challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and catalyst regeneration needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation affects propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) serves as a soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and aiding coke removal. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction, impacting its effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. However, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, compromising selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles with growing demand and faces limitations due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of the process, highlighting the need for careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a more direct and potentially cleaner route, with oxygen increasing propylene yields but risking deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. Nitrous oxide (N2O), while more costly and environmentally concerning, improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations are addressed by ODHP, which boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures using SO2 as an oxidant, an advantage over conventional methods. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy demands, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates these issues by lowering operating temperatures through heat release and enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant, addresses these issues, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant introduces overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway risks (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, mitigate these issues due to their thermal stability and surface area (Quote 4 and 5). Despite advancements, no catalytic system matches current industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with low propylene yields and over-oxidation issues when using oxygen, limiting olefin selectivity. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate over-oxidation, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as seen in other partial oxidation reactions, aiming to enhance propylene yields and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and requires costly air separation. Precise temperature control is vital to prevent catalyst deactivation due to hotspots and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions, potentially leading to over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreased yields. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, but conversion increases can result in selectivity losses due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low yields and selectivity, worsened by the declining propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is constrained by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yield to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen in ODHP are underexplored in literature, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but struggles with selectivity at higher conversion rates and increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, presents safety and process control challenges, affecting ODHP's commercial potential. Achieving a balance between propane conversion and propylene selectivity remains elusive, impacting the method's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and costs, with CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP offering a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution. ODHP can reduce greenhouse gas emissions and save energy, but using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical, faces production challenges including supply deficits, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a more economical feedstock, offers potentially efficient conversion but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance. Both oxidants present trade-offs in ODHP, highlighting its complex nature.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high temperatures, expensive precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene's fate due to overoxidation risks, significantly lowering selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, highlighting the ongoing search for a more effective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints, necessitating high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and avoids equilibrium limitations but faces over-oxidation challenges. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by consuming hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or directly oxidizing propane to propylene, while also serving as a coke remover. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy needs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy demands, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, enhancing safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    