Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and dehydrogenation struggles to meet growing demand, especially in regions favoring ethylene [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process, enhances energy efficiency over endothermal methods [8]. However, using oxygen in ODHP boosts energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, affecting economic and environmental aspects [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity and selectivity, is pivotal for the economic feasibility of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, whereas ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation but may have lower activity and higher costs, with environmental concerns due to its greenhouse gas properties. The oxidant choice is crucial, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion by enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. DDP's thermal limitations and high temperature requirements for significant yields are addressed by ODHP. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in ODHP reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane, releasing heat, and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike O2, CO2 as an oxidant suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially reducing limitations. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical chemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to reliance on costly, unsustainable methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, yet struggles with selectivity issues when using oxygen, leading to over-oxidation. Recent studies suggest CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, addressing key limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, adding to costs with its separation from air and requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap highlights the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP, offering thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, is a promising alternative. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and oil dependency. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, yet struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while abundant, risks overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, necessitating precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, increases propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation and safety issues, limiting alkene yields. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and curbing over-oxidation, highlighting the importance of oxidant selection and control.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by a shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial use; bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and limit natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. The process requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions and manage the exothermic reaction's safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation and syngas by-products as added benefits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unexplored challenges, affecting its viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's reactivity, leading to declining selectivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing safety concerns with oxidant selection, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and generates unwanted byproducts. ODHP presents a more selective and efficient process, with CO2 as an oxidant offering cost and emission reductions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP, using propane, offers higher conversion efficiency but has limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a gentler oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks the heat for dehydrogenation and may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures required for dehydrogenation and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, can mitigate the need for high temperatures but risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, impacting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the ongoing search for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limits, but over-oxidation impacts selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is advantageous, utilizing greenhouse gas, removing coke, and promoting the reaction by consuming hydrogen or directly oxidizing propane. Oxide catalysts, effective in non-oxidative PDH, also work with CO2, though rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction presents a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely addresses these issues, enhancing process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand and thermodynamic constraints in current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, lead to rapid catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are essential for improving ODHP's competitiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a cleaner, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves propene selectivity, mitigating deep oxidation risk, though it may decrease activity and increase costs. The choice of oxidant is critical, influencing the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity, highlighting ODHP's potential and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. DDP's thermal limitations and high temperature requirements for significant yields are addressed by ODHP. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in ODHP reduces operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, and curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues by reducing the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance ODHP activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) emerges as a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and produces by-products. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations in oxidant selection, notably with oxygen. While oxygen is effective, it can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and requires precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, posing safety risks and adding to costs due to its reactivity and the need for separation from air.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome over-oxidation challenges to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy use and low selectivity, are addressed by ODHP, which offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly with oxidant choice like oxygen, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, impacting catalyst performance. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, which reduces coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, potentially decreasing yields. H2S in the feedstock boosts propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, though increased conversion can lead to selectivity losses.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam cracking further reduces the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene grows. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but is limited by propylene's consecutive oxidation, achieving only about 30% yield. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective; I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency of expensive I2; bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a common oxidant, can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while managing the exothermic reaction's safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP is a promising propylene production method, offering higher conversion and yield than non-oxidative techniques. It efficiently generates hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces undocumented challenges, highlighting a research gap in ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, complicates the process, hindering commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges such as high energy use and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, oxygen use can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice in propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity, as highlighted by the presence of O2 causing overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides (COx).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP offers a cost-effective alternative with higher conversion rates using propane. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and affects olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can boost catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks the heat for dehydrogenation and may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and enhances propane conversion, making it preferable to O2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand highlights issues with current production methods: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, highlighting the need for alternatives. PDH faces low conversion and yield due to equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. ODHP is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, a soft oxidant, offers potential by utilizing greenhouse gases and aiding in coke removal, shifting PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, especially Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant addresses these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene and face thermodynamic and coking issues. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 production. Despite challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative with potential for innovation in catalysts and reactor designs, addressing the need for specific olefin production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, with co-product dilution issues. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propane conversion at high temperatures but results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. DDP's high energy demands and endothermic nature limit its effectiveness. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these issues by potentially reducing the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though they haven't matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy consumption and complex processes are addressed by ODHP, which directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Precise oxygen control is essential to prevent over-oxidation, adding to process costs and complexity.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene production has widened the propylene demand-supply gap, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers higher efficiency and stable catalysts over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics. Yet, it faces the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a critical scientific obstacle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have low selectivity and rely on depleting resources. ODHP offers higher selectivity and efficiency but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, causes overoxidation, hotspots, coke formation, and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for precise temperature control and suitable catalysts for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from coke formation. ODHP addresses this by reducing coke at lower temperatures. Oxygen, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, affecting yields and requiring controlled conditions to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation, while oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, impacting yields due to propene re-oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by a shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative, but faces challenges, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. Selectivity control is more complex in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, addressing growing propene demand. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, introduces safety and process issues, impacting the commercial potential of propane oxydehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP presents an energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions while promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, lack selectivity, and rely on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and efficient conversion, but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation. CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include high temperatures required for acceptable yields (Quote 2) and costly catalysts prone to deactivation (Quote 6). ODHP, an exothermic process, could lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation of propylene to carbon monoxide and dioxide, reducing selectivity (Quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and dehydrogenation faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, ODHP struggles with low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for selective catalysts to enhance efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production faces low yields and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. ODHP, an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limitations but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, acting as a soft oxidant in PDH, utilizes greenhouse gas and mitigates coke formation, yet it causes rapid catalyst deactivation. Research on oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, shows promise but faces challenges like deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP addresses these issues, providing a safer, milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces production via steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its efficiency. ODHP, being exothermal, offers a more energy-efficient propylene production route than endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, presenting environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with higher yields, using oxygen as an oxidant but risking deep oxidation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, albeit with higher costs and environmental issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propane conversion and selectivity, albeit with a trade-off of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements, leading to interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 modifies the dehydrogenation pathway, lowering operating temperatures and boosting propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues but faces the risk of overoxidation and instability with oxygen. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion, though none have achieved yields comparable to current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's limitations include selectivity problems when using oxygen, leading to over-oxidation of paraffins and olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges with oxygen use, including deep oxidation that reduces propylene selectivity and safety risks due to oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas impacts have widened the propylene supply-demand gap, spurring interest in ODHP. ODHP boasts exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, outperforming non-oxidative methods. Yet, it grapples with the over-oxidation challenge, risking propene's conversion to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking has high energy consumption and low selectivity issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause overoxidation and requires strict temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. Its use can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields and requiring careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, though selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion due to propene re-adsorption and subsequent oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which further reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for higher yields and lower costs, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, dominated by energy-intensive methods, faces challenges in utilizing remote gas reserves. ODHP emerges as a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, it grapples with oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, which, while effective, can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Catalysts must activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to prevent overheating, with the weaker CH and CC bonds in propane complicating selectivity control.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene drives the need for alternative production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity to oxidation, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking produces various by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but shares similar challenges, especially with propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection in ODHP raises safety concerns, highlighting its unrealized commercial potential as it struggles to combine high propane conversion with propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking has high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions. The choice of oxidant is critical; CO2 enhances selectivity without over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. This highlights the importance of oxidant selection for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, whereas ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion. However, ODHP faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and cracking. CO2, while safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like FCC and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures (Quote 2), expensive catalysts (Quote 5), and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 6). Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation (Quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion (Quote 8), making it a preferred choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields, equilibrium constraints, and high-temperature side reactions leading to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and avoids thermodynamic limitations but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant enhances PDH by utilizing greenhouse gas and mitigating coke through reverse water-gas shift or direct propane oxidation. However, PDH with CO2 encounters catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction, as seen with Ga2O3 and chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy consumption and thermodynamic limitations are mitigated by ODHP, which reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen's use in ODHP can lead to flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation in current production methods highlight the need for alternatives. ODHP presents itself as a direct, exothermal route to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, emphasizing the importance of catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route. Oxygen increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly oxygen separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP increases propane conversion at high temperatures, though it may lower propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, addressing production challenges while presenting its own trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as an oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially overcoming endothermic issues and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite advancements, current catalytic systems do not match industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of preventing over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, lack selectivity, and depend on depleting oil reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient process with higher yields. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which risks overoxidation, hotspots, and catalyst degradation. Effective catalysts and reactor designs are vital to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers an alternative by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's ability to inhibit coke formation and promote selectivity for propene. However, oxygen limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway, while oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP boosts propylene yields but presents challenges like selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but struggles with consecutive propylene oxidation, limiting efficiency. Oxidant selection is critical; F2 and Cl2 are unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues. I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, restricting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and centralized, whereas ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation, a challenge due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights ODHP's potential as an alternative to current production methods, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges, underscoring the method's limitations despite its advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking above 700°C. ODHP aims to address these, but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity with increased conversion, highlighting commercialization hurdles, especially with oxygen as an oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is costly, energy-intensive, and environmentally problematic. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective, and potentially eco-friendly alternative. Selecting CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP amplifies its advantages over oxygen, which can lead to over-oxidation and reduced propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for ODHP's success, impacting its cost-effectiveness and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for the petrochemical industry, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like dehydrogenation have limitations, including thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, causing economic strain. ODHP presents a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion. Oxidant selection is pivotal; oxygen can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though safer, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. ODHP, an exothermic process, can lower temperatures but risks overoxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via traditional methods faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. [1] Notes the limitations of traditional methods, while [2] highlights ODHP's potential and its primary drawback.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct methods suffer from low yields, high temperatures, and side reactions, leading to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and avoids thermodynamic limits, yet over-oxidation hinders selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH acts as a soft oxidant, aiding CO2 utilization and coke removal, shifting equilibrium toward propylene production. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction constrains CO2PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges due to ethylene preference and dehydrogenation limitations, leading to a growing demand, especially in Western Europe. ODHP presents an exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, oxygen use in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies must focus on catalyst performance and innovative process designs to address these issues, aiming for comparable yields to current olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can enhance propene selectivity and mitigate deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The choice of oxidant affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP improves selectivity and propane conversion at high temperatures, though propylene selectivities may be lower than with pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high energy requirement and thermodynamic constraints are mitigated by ODHP, which uses CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen, which causes over-oxidation. Additionally, CO2 boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, addressing DDP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, though their yields haven't matched current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, making ODHP a promising but still developing alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient route to propylene, addressing these issues. However, it has limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions, increasing costs due to separation from air and requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas's low-cost ethene, highlights ODHP's potential. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, prevents coke deposition, outperforming non-oxidative methods. Yet, it must tackle over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a significant hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption and low selectivity, issues addressed by ODHP, which is more energy-efficient and offers higher propylene selectivity. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and byproducts in ODHP, necessitating precise temperature control, advanced catalysts, and adding to energy costs due to air separation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and elevated temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred ODHP oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, limiting yields. Its use necessitates careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions, as it can lead to selectivity losses and propene yields below 30%. Despite these, oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP supports high propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC suffers from low yields and selectivity, worsened by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation is theoretically ideal but faces thermodynamic limitations, requiring high temperatures and complicating hydrogen and propane separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are fast but non-selective; I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures; bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand underscores the need for efficient production methods. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes. Using CO2 in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product generation. However, employing oxygen as an oxidant introduces specific challenges that are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher reactivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance these metrics but faces similar challenges, notably with oxidant selection, where oxygen presents safety concerns, hindering its commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Steam cracking for propylene production is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally concerning. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in optimizing propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion in endothermic processes, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive and have low selectivity. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but less effective in providing heat, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces hurdles including high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, making it a promising alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP enables lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, reflecting ongoing efforts to improve the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high-temperature side reactions, leading to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity is hindered by over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH not only utilizes CO2 but also aids in coke removal and shifts the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant is safer and more readily available, mitigating these issues, as suggested.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene outpaces current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic limits and coking issues. ODHP directly converts propane to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, as highlighted by Lange [3]. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts and reactor designs to address these challenges, aiming for comparable yields to current technologies as questioned in [10] and [11].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and emits greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially lower-energy route with fewer byproducts. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and increase costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propane conversion at high temperatures, though it leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, illustrating both the advantages and limitations of this method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limits and high temperature needs are addressed by ODHP, which uses CO2 to lower operating temperatures and enhance propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike oxygen, which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, aims to improve selectivity and conversion (Quote 2). However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. To mitigate this, the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Precise oxygen control is essential to prevent over-oxidation, and oxygen separation adds to costs, highlighting the need for careful oxidant selection in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependency on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, though cost-effective and plentiful, risks overoxidation, unwanted byproducts, hotspots, and catalyst degradation, impacting performance. Precise temperature control and advanced catalysts are crucial for ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with coke formation, which ODHP mitigates by operating at lower temperatures. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but restricts alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially leading to over-oxidation and decreased yields. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use results in selectivity losses with increased conversion, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low selectivity and propylene output, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to further oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, demands a high propane-to-bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make controlling selectivity in ODHP more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand strains current production methods, affecting co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing CO2 utilisation challenges by producing CO2 as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's easier oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures, leading to by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, being critical yet posing safety issues. Commercializing propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive, hindering its potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen leads to propane over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking and FCC is energy-demanding, has low selectivity, and relies on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP uses cost-effective propane, offering efficient conversion, but faces oxidant selection challenges. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but requiring more energy, can increase coke formation and compete for catalyst sites, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including DH and Oleflex, face challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP offers a potential solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with overoxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, illustrating the trade-offs in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production via catalytic and steam cracking faces low conversion and yield issues due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, mitigating coke formation, and shifting the reaction equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, particularly in chromium-based catalysts and with Ga2O3, remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints, are addressed by ODHP, which reduces energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. However, oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these problems, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges due to thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion and coking issues, as noted in quote 2. ODHP offers an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal alternatives, as highlighted in quote 8. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP, as mentioned in quote 13, increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs are essential to address these issues, as implied in quotes 5 and 6.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, whereas ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity but may lower activity and increase costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability, highlighting its critical role in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity and conversion at high temperatures, though propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. This highlights ODHP's potential as an alternative method with unique advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which can lead to over-oxidation. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, addressing DDP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation is hindered by side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalyst deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to address these issues (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though no system matches the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest that the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP is a more efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Diluents and controlled reaction conditions are necessary to mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP, offering thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, must tackle the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2 to be viable.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-demanding, has low selectivity, and depends on depleting oil resources. ODHP offers enhanced energy efficiency and selectivity but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen use risks overoxidation to carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen increases selectivity at higher costs, complicating temperature control and catalyst management.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion and risks of over-oxidation to carbon oxides, leading to propene yields below 30%. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields, exacerbated by a shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, struggles with polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and require large plants, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, controlling selectivity, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene necessitates efficient production methods; ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, making it an attractive CO2 utilisation process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents challenges, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, faces similar challenges, particularly with selectivity declining rapidly with conversion. Oxidant selection, notably the use of oxygen, raises safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial viability. Achieving high conversion and selectivity simultaneously remains elusive, hindering ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and produces greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen's use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the oxidant choice's critical role in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply shortage due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic restraints, addressing these limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers improved efficiency and economics. However, it encounters limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while beneficial, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a gentler oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures and catalyst costs, leading to deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing the limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high-temperature side reactions, necessitating catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limits, but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH utilizes greenhouse gas, removes coke, and shifts PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizes propane. However, PDH with CO2 sees rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution, addressing ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation in current methods, underscore the need for alternatives. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene with improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, balancing environmental and economic considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene with fewer co-products. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing propane conversion but reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are recognized, yet not detailed. This method improves selectivity per pass at high temperatures, presenting a viable alternative with its own set of advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating innovative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature requirements for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to address these by initiating the reaction differently. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, requiring careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds to the cost, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a demand-supply gap for propylene, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP, with its exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and prevention of coke deposition, offers enhanced efficiency and catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, the key challenge is avoiding the facile over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a thermodynamically stable state.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy consumption and low selectivity are addressed by ODHP, offering a more efficient and selective process. However, ODHP's use of oxygen can lead to overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, requiring precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges such as high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, requiring careful control. Adding H2S improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, addressing selectivity losses at higher conversions.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields, but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and large-scale, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. The need for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation is crucial due to the weaker CH and CC bonds in propane, making selectivity control challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods, making ODHP appealing due to its higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative techniques. An added advantage is the utilization of chemical CO2. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges that are not well-documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures, making ODHP's commercial potential elusive. ODHP offers improvements but shares similar challenges, with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, being critical yet posing safety and process issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and emit high levels of pollutants. ODHP presents a more efficient and economical solution with potential environmental benefits. Selecting CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances the process by promoting selective dehydrogenation without the risk of over-oxidation, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing to CO2. The choice of oxidant is crucial for achieving high propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, yet struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation. CO2, safer but endothermic, can lead to additional coke and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP could lower temperatures but risks overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, offering a promising alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP addresses current issues but introduces selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods due to low yields and equilibrium constraints. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative but faces low conversion and yield issues, exacerbated by high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, offering benefits in PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and shifting the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction, as reported by Zheng et al. (2005) and Zhang et al. (2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant improves process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, strains current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers an exothermic, energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, impacting the economic attractiveness of the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation risk, albeit with potential drawbacks of lower activity, higher costs, and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is pivotal, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation, leading to the exploration of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, offers enhanced selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, this method increases propane conversion at the expense of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating a trade-off.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, necessitating temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation, unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation is hindered by side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demands, and coke-induced catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have yet matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via non-oxidative processing of petroleum is costly and unsustainable. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions. Despite promising yields reported, ODHP's industrial implementation is hindered by limited catalyst lifetime and the challenge of maintaining high selectivity under conditions that promote high propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product generation. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route to propylene but faces challenges with oxidant selection, notably oxygen. Oxygen can cause deep oxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity, and its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene boosts propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP for on-purpose propene. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, counters coke deposition. Yet, avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2 remains a key challenge.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges of high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP is a more efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and temperature control issues, resulting in undesired byproducts. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke and promoting propene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion and risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Controlled conditions are needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S addition enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in high propylene yields, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically promising, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation, capping yields at 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial use, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering the use of remote gas reserves. ODHP presents a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen in ODHP can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing propylene production challenges. Using CO2 as an oxidant benefits chemical CO2 utilization, but employing oxygen presents specific challenges needing further study, impacting ODHP's potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to drop with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700°C, propane cracking leads to unwanted by-products. ODHP, aiming to improve these aspects, faces similar challenges, especially in oxidant selection, where oxygen's use complicates safety and process stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-demanding, costly, and environmentally detrimental. ODHP offers a more efficient and economical solution, potentially lowering emissions and energy consumption. Selecting CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity without the risk of over-oxidation, unlike oxygen, which diminishes selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for ODHP's success, impacting yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a significant limitation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and combustion. CO2, safer but less effective in compensating for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, offering advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via traditional methods faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but also results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke buildup. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limits, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, emerges as a viable PDH alternative, utilizing CO2 and reducing coke via the reverse water-gas shift or direct propane oxidation. However, catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction challenges CO2PDH's viability, as evidenced by Ga2O3's rapid deactivation (Quote 8) and chromium-based catalysts' issues (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, O2 use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant addresses these issues, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and coking in current methods [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of the process [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more efficient route, directly converting propane. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production, achieving higher selectivity at high temperatures using SO2 as an oxidant, surpassing conventional methods. However, SO2, while boosting propane conversion, leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring temperatures exceeding 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and avoids over-oxidation and carbon oxides production, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion, though no system has yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, vital for numerous chemicals, faces sustainability and cost challenges with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient propane-to-propylene conversion. Oxidant selection is critical in ODHP; using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and increasing safety and cost concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene widens the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP for on-purpose propene production. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and reliant on diminishing petroleum resources. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges with oxygen use, including overoxidation to carbon oxides and costly air separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control, risking yield reduction and catalyst deactivation. Despite oxygen's abundance, its management is crucial to prevent overoxidation and coke formation, necessitating advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant for its selectivity, faces limitations due to unselective combustion and over-oxidation, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in lower yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for higher yields and lower costs, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but struggles with propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, thus limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and require large-scale operations, limiting their efficiency. ODHP presents a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand drives the need for alternative production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield than traditional processes. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is promising for chemical CO2 utilization. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges that require further research, as this area is not well-documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably using oxygen, raises safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial viability. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously remains elusive, hindering ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy costs, environmental issues, and byproduct generation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, enhancing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical, faces supply issues due to high demand. Current production, via steam cracking and dehydrogenation, is limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without these constraints. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion process. However, it encounters limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while beneficial for lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, poses risks of overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures due to its exothermic nature but faces issues with propylene selectivity. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, making it preferable over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP using molecular oxygen offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene outstrips conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion rates due to thermodynamic constraints and high-temperature side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, addresses these issues but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting the equilibrium and directly oxidizing propane, managing coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 encounters catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers a low-energy, catalyst-free process, overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    