Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production via steam cracking, which favors ethylene, and FCC, which yields smaller propylene amounts [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its efficiency [2]. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, highlighting the need for innovative technologies [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy use and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can enhance propene selectivity and mitigate deep oxidation, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. The oxidant choice is pivotal, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a significant advantage. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not discuss challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating innovative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion (Quotes 4 and 5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched current industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative methods, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation, with the highest reported propene yield under O2 lean-conditions being around 40%. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as it has shown success in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can reduce propylene selectivity due to deep oxidation and poses safety risks, necessitating controlled conditions and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, adding to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, temperature control issues, and catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are advantages, but its use requires precise temperature control and suitable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and enhancing propene selectivity. However, oxygen can cause over-oxidation, decreasing yields, and poses risks of explosive conditions, especially at higher conversion rates due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields and selectivity, further complicated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising due to high propylene selectivity and low investment, is hindered by thermodynamic constraints requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve yields but faces the challenge of propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting its effectiveness. Oxidant selection is pivotal, with F2 and Cl2 being unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues, I2 reactions being slow and favorable only at high temperatures, and bromine offering more feasibility but necessitating a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting efficiency. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The need for catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions is critical. Propane's weaker CH and CC bonds complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, making ODHP a significant alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, plus CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents undocumented challenges, indicating a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, particularly with significant cracking above 700 C, hindering commercialization. Oxidant choice, notably oxygen, raises safety concerns, impacting commercial viability. The elusive goal of combining high propane conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains unachieved.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy demands, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more efficient solution, potentially reducing energy use and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP cuts costs and energy, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP), are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP, using propane, offers a potentially more efficient conversion but is limited by oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2), as highlighted in quote [8], is a preferred oxidant over oxygen in ODHP as it mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via traditional methods faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to low yields and equilibrium limitations in conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, yet over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers potential in PDH by utilizing CO2 and reducing coke formation, though rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction remains a hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking has high energy costs, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer, readily available soft oxidant mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges due to growing demand and dehydrogenation constraints leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP directly addresses these issues by efficiently producing propylene from propane, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental concerns. The success of ODHP as a competitive technology hinges on the effectiveness of catalysts and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more efficient route with lower energy requirements and emissions. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields due to higher reactivity but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires robust catalysts. N2O provides higher selectivity and slower deactivation but is costlier and raises environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation, which ODHP addresses by enhancing selectivity at high temperatures using SO2 as an oxidant. Adding SO2 boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, highlighting ODHP's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these by reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen-based ODHP risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and improve selectivity, yet none have achieved yields comparable to industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, vital for numerous chemicals, faces sustainability and cost issues with traditional non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, aligning with the goal of maintaining high propylene selectivity under conditions that promote high propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates controlled conditions and diluents for safety, increasing costs due to oxygen separation and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient process with higher selectivity, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation to carbon oxides and temperature control issues, threatening the combustion of desired products. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to over-oxidation, decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and selectivity losses with increased conversion, as propene can re-adsorb and oxidize to carbon oxides. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, with a max yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling inefficiencies; bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The key is finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, leading to reduced co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization as a strategy, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, with selectivity decreasing as conversion increases. High temperatures lead to propane cracking and various by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges, with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, posing safety issues. Commercializing propane oxydehydrogenation for propylene production is hindered by these obstacles.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, struggle with high costs and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP presents as a more efficient and selective process, particularly when CO2 is used as an oxidant, which reduces costs, emissions, and energy use without the risk of over-oxidation. However, using oxygen can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice in propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and lack selectivity. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but endothermic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures and costly catalysts, as seen in the endothermic propane dehydrogenation requiring high temperatures and expensive Pt catalysts (Quote 2, 5). ODHP can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature (Quote 7). However, controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, offering advantages over oxygen (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production via catalytic and steam cracking faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP, an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints but struggles with over-oxidation. CO2, a soft oxidant, presents a viable solution by utilizing greenhouse gas and mitigating coke formation, shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation to enhance propylene yield. Chromium and gallium-based catalysts are effective in PDH with CO2, though rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction limits their use.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant provides a safer, milder alternative, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to a preference for ethylene [1]. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and rapid catalyst deactivation from coking [2]. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene with improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference between feed and product, with CO2 production adding environmental concerns [13]. The catalyst's performance, including activity for alkane conversion and selectivity to desired products, is crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, struggle with high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner solution. Oxygen increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires separation. Nitrous oxide boosts propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is crucial for product selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by employing SO2 as an oxidant, boosting selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, the addition of SO2 to the process increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to using pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outstrips current production, prompting the exploration of efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive, leading to oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion by consuming hydrogen. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 minimizes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy requirements, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to address these by offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion while curbing complete oxidation, though none match current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and simpler alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring diluents and precise control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and accurate dosing is critical to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene widens the propylene supply-demand gap, necessitating on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, outperforms non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the key challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control and affects catalyst performance, necessitating suitable catalysts and reactor designs to ensure ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence, which enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities and risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures, and H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in lower yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, yield low propylene as a by-product, with the propylene/ethylene ratio declining due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application, and bromine reactions need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, whereas ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges, leading to interest in ODHP as an alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, CO2 utilization, and byproducts of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, despite gaps in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. Propane cracking becomes significant at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, producing various by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxygen as an oxidant presents safety concerns, impacting the commercialization potential of propane oxydehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and emission-heavy. ODHP presents a more efficient and economical alternative with reduced emissions. Selecting CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity without the risk of over-oxidation, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical, faces supply issues due to high demand. Current production, via steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation, is constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active catalysts, oxygen's role in overoxidation to carbon oxides remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via conventional methods faces challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. Oxidant selection is critical; oxygen lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP offers lower temperatures but faces overoxidation issues, impacting selectivity. CO2, as an oxidant, mitigates deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Traditional propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, addresses these by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation poses a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH offers a soft oxidant option, utilizing CO2 for coke removal, but catalyst deactivation due to coke and chromium reduction remains a hurdle. Catalysts containing Cr or Ga show promise in PDH with CO2, balancing activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely resolves these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints in current production methods pose challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route with lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation risk, though it may decrease activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, leading to interest in ODHP as an alternative. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, increases propane conversion but sacrifices propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, demonstrating its trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike molecular oxygen, which can cause over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these limitations (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to mitigate these issues due to their stability and surface area, though none have matched current industrial yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and simpler alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose CO2 as a milder oxidant, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, addressing key limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce by-products. ODHP offers a more direct and efficient route, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and raising safety concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a supply-demand gap for propylene, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and costly oxygen separation. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent catalyst deactivation, and suitable catalysts and reactor designs are key for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities and can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, reducing yields. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity and suppresses over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Growing polypropylene demand necessitates dedicated propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields, but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and require large centralized plants. ODHP presents a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Challenges include the need for efficient catalysts to activate propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. Selectivity control is more challenging in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand exposes limitations in current production methods, leading to reduced co-product yields. ODHP presents as a promising alternative, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield, potentially serving as a CO2 utilization method with syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces underexplored challenges, impacting its viability as a production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and increased propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while aiming to improve these issues, faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, with high conversion and selectivity remaining elusive as selectivity declines rapidly and propane cracking becomes significant above 700 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Steam cracking for propylene production is costly and inefficient due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more selective and efficient alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including dehydrogenation, are constrained by thermodynamic limits for propane conversion and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, which eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production faces challenges due to low yields, equilibrium limitations, and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative that overcomes thermodynamic limitations but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances propylene yield by shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation and mitigates coke formation, though catalyst deactivation remains a concern. The presence of CO2 facilitates a two-step pathway or direct oxidation, as reported by Bartholomew (1984) and Michorczyk et al. (2011), making it a promising approach in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Yet, O2 use can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant addresses this, offering a milder, readily available alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges due to growing demand and thermodynamic constraints leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP presents an exothermic, energy-efficient alternative to endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of alkane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity, reducing deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and increase costs. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion at high temperatures, enhancing selectivity per pass. However, this method yields lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, illustrating trade-offs in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizes carbon oxides production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by initiating reactions at lower temperatures using an oxidant. However, oxygen can lead to overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, improve selectivity and conversion while maintaining stability. Despite advancements, no system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, facing high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods, finds a potential solution in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially making the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance, addressing the limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP is more efficient but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks over-oxidation to CO and CO2, requiring controlled conditions and diluents, which increase costs and complexity.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a supply-demand gap for propylene, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP boasts thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, avoiding coke formation. Yet, it must tackle the issue of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP is a more efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation, costly separation, and complicates temperature control, leading to potential catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for balancing oxygen's benefits and risks in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, involving cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation. However, oxygen's use results in selectivity losses with higher conversion rates, affecting propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC faces low yields and selectivity, with a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial use. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unexplored challenges, impacting its potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high conversion and selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly using oxygen, adds safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's goal of high conversion and selectivity remains elusive, with commercialization distant.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and emits greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective solution with potential emission reductions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits, whereas oxygen risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking and FCC is energy-intensive, has low selectivity, and depends on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a challenge. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalysts, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces temperatures but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids overoxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, offering advantages over O2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. This aligns with the quote noting the search for a catalyst to improve selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation suffers from low yields, high temperatures, and side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limits, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and potentially shifting the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a low-energy, catalyst-free process, overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand in Western Europe outpaces production, as steam cracking favors ethylene. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic limits and coking issues. ODHP, an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency but using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a key environmental and economic concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases and co-products. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route with fewer co-products. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting a trade-off in ODHP's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, leading to the exploration of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion by consuming H2, unlike O2, which suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues but faces challenges with oxygen causing overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative but faces challenges in oxidant selection, notably with oxygen. Oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas's low-cost ethene. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, addressing conventional method limitations. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and lack selectivity. ODHP presents a more efficient process with higher propylene yield. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and requires costly oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, impacting propylene yield and catalyst stability. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but poses risks of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. Adding H2S to the feed boosts propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation. However, oxygen's use results in selectivity losses at higher conversions.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low selectivity and output, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam cracking. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 is slow and requires high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, needs a higher propane ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and limit remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, controlling selectivity, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. Propane's weaker CH and CC bonds pose a greater selectivity challenge in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, affecting its potential as a chemical CO2 utilisation technique.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with declining selectivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures, making high propane conversion elusive. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges due to propylene's reactivity and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, introduces safety issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and cost-effective method, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits, whereas oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice significantly affects propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient conversion from propane but encounters issues with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, prevents over-oxidation but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, potentially causing more coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalysts, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate deep oxidation, decrease coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles with low yields and equilibrium constraints, leading to exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). Direct PDH is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. ODHP, while exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, faces a selectivity challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH utilizes CO2, removes coke, but faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as seen with Ga2O3 and Cr-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a low-energy, catalyst-free process, overcoming these issues. However, oxygen's use can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as an oxidant in ODHP mitigates these problems, showcasing its potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand, especially in regions favoring ethylene, and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance is critical for economic viability, with research focusing on enhancing yields and reactor configurations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and is costlier. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propane conversion at high temperatures, albeit with reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen presents specific challenges in ODHP, but these are not well-documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizing carbon oxide production by preventing over-oxidation, as opposed to using molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which uses an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to overcome these challenges. However, using oxygen can result in overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and improve selectivity, though none have yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for numerous chemicals, faces sustainability and cost challenges with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity due to its exothermic nature. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Recent studies suggest that using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, making ODHP a promising but still developing alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more direct and efficient route. However, it has limitations, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and precise dosing is critical to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, increasing low-cost ethene. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition, making it a promising alternative. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2. ODHP's potential efficiency improvements over non-oxidative methods are due to favorable thermodynamics and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use and dependence on diminishing petroleum. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective solution, yet faces issues with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, which can lead to overoxidation and temperature control problems, affecting catalysts. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via cracking and dehydrogenation faces challenges like high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures and reduces coke formation, addressing these issues. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields below 30%. Careful control is required to prevent explosions and optimize conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift towards ethane use. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 offers a more feasible but still limited option due to polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges, less documented than other aspects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, hindered by propylene's higher reactivity and temperature-induced propane cracking. ODHP aims to improve this but faces similar issues, notably in oxidant selection, where oxygen presents safety concerns, reflecting the difficulty in combining high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, costs, environmental concerns, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, enhancing selectivity. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, lowering propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity, which are significant limitations to consider.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces economic and efficiency challenges, with low selectivity. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though safer, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) lowers reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in lower propylene selectivity, balancing advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative but faces challenges like low conversion and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process not limited by thermodynamics, presents a solution but has issues with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH utilizes CO2, removes coke, and promotes the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. However, PDH with CO2 leads to rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as evidenced by studies showing drastic deactivation of Ga2O3 and the role of Cr reduction in chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. O2 use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and limitations like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking challenge current production methods [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal dehydrogenation [8], but using oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with potential energy savings. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. Oxygen's high reactivity can cause rapid catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for robust catalyst development. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes equilibrium limitations in propylene production by enhancing propane conversion at high temperatures, boosting selectivity per pass. However, this method yields lower propylene selectivities than pure propane feed, illustrating its trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane, releasing heat, and avoiding over-oxidation and excess carbon oxide production, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to address these issues by potentially reducing endothermic effects and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH selectivity and activity (Quote 4 and 5). Despite this, these systems have yet to match the yields of current industrial olefin production technologies (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, leading to CO and CO2 formation and reduced propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates controlled conditions and diluents, adding to costs and requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap drives interest in ODHP, which offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome facile over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a key challenge. ODHP is exothermic at lower temperatures and prevents coke deposition, but addressing over-oxidation is crucial for its viability.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and lack selectivity, whereas ODHP offers higher efficiency and selectivity. However, ODHP's reliance on oxygen can cause overoxidation and necessitates costly oxygen separation, presenting its own set of challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred ODHP oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. Despite challenges, oxygen promotes high propylene yields, though selectivity losses with increased conversion can result in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene as a by-product, with declining propylene/ethylene ratios due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is limited to about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can affect propylene yield due to side reactions. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing growing propene demand. An advantage is CO2 utilization, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unexplored challenges, affecting ODHP's potential as a dedicated synthesis process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking becomes significant, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, especially in oxidant selection, impacting process reliability. The elusive goal of combining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation highlights commercialization hurdles.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking confronts high energy consumption, costs, and environmental concerns. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing greenhouse gas emissions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations by operating at lower temperatures without thermodynamic restraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers more efficient conversion and economic benefits. However, it faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but faces selectivity issues. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand is rising, with current production methods like steam cracking, FCC, and DH facing issues like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP using molecular oxygen offers advantages with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, but it has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative but faces challenges like low conversion and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited process, addresses these issues but has selectivity problems due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), as a soft oxidant in PDH, presents an interesting solution by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limitations. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand and face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene, aligning with market needs and providing improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs, mainly due to CO2 production. The effectiveness of catalysts and innovative process designs are crucial for the success of ODHP technology, as they determine economic attractiveness and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more efficient route, with oxygen enhancing yields but risking deep oxidation and necessitating costly separation. N2O improves selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental issues. Oxidant choice is pivotal, balancing yield, catalyst stability, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP boosts propylene production by overcoming equilibrium limitations and offering higher selectivity per pass, especially when SO2 is used as an oxidant at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting a trade-off in ODHP's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures over 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, offers an exothermic process with reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway, presenting new challenges. Catalysts are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have yet matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally costly and unsustainable, faces challenges addressed by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity but is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Recent studies suggest CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking. Despite promising yields, ODHP results remain below industrial interest levels, highlighting the need for advancements in catalysts and reactor configurations to enhance selectivity under high propane conversion conditions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a direct conversion of propane to propylene, enhancing efficiency. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety and cost issues due to its reactivity and the need for separation and precise dosing.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas's low-cost ethene, motivating on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions and lower temperatures, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen increases selectivity but adds costs. Oxygen can cause hotspots in the catalyst bed, complicating temperature control. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success, requiring precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, is selective for propene but can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC suffers from low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Growing polypropylene demand necessitates dedicated propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine is more feasible but requires a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like steam cracking are energy-intensive and limit remote gas utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, using oxygen in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while managing the exothermic reaction for safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, making it a promising CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique, under-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to drop with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking intensifies, yielding unwanted by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, notably with oxidant choice, where oxygen poses safety concerns. The commercial viability of propane oxydehydrogenation remains unrealized, underlining the difficulty in achieving high conversion and selectivity simultaneously.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking encounters high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and byproduct production. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the importance of oxidant choice in propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, which eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge for process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers more efficient conversion and economic advantages, using propane as a feedstock. However, it faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant over oxygen can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, offering a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is constrained by low yields and high temperatures, leading to interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP, an exothermic process, overcomes equilibrium limitations but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers benefits by utilizing greenhouse gas, facilitating coke removal, and shifting PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane. Oxide catalysts, particularly Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but experience rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a low-energy, catalyst-free process, bypassing thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen use can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP addresses these issues, providing a safer, milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces ethylene production via steam cracking. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder its efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, offers energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, oxygen use in ODHP escalates energy losses and costs due to CO2 by-product. Catalyst performance and innovative designs are pivotal for ODHP's economic feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, suffer from high energy consumption, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy requirements. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen increases yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide enhances selectivity but may reduce activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP aims to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity, especially at high temperatures, but increases propane conversion at the cost of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting the oxidant's role and associated challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates efficient production methods. DDP's high-temperature requirements limit its effectiveness, prompting the exploration of ODHP. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production, and increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these by initiating reactions without solely relying on high temperatures. However, oxygen can lead to overoxidation and instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though they haven't yet matched industrial production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP struggles with selectivity to propylene when using oxygen, due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant can mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, making ODHP a promising but developing alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can reduce propylene selectivity by forming CO and CO2 and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation adds costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap and driving interest in ODHP. This method, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, aims to prevent propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a critical scientific challenge.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-demanding and selective, relying on depleting petroleum. ODHP offers higher efficiency and selectivity but faces overoxidation risks with oxygen use, necessitating costly oxygen separation. Oxygen's affordability and abundance are offset by the need for strict temperature control to prevent overoxidation, which can reduce propylene yield and cause catalyst deactivation. Effective catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing yields, and requires careful management to avoid explosive mixtures. H2S addition enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, oxygen's unselective reactions limit alkene selectivities, and extensive selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference in steam crackers, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential but is limited to a 30% yield due to propylene's further oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine, though more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the safety of exothermic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, highlighting the potential of ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP presents a promising CO2 utilisation method and syngas by-products. However, employing oxygen as an oxidant introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen use as an oxidant introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges including reduced yields. ODHP presents as a more selective and cost-effective alternative with lower emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts efficiency and selectivity without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing to CO2, highlighting the oxidant's critical role in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including dehydrogenation, are limited by high energy requirements and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient conversion process but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks over-oxidation, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and may cause additional coke deposition, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation of propylene. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, offering a promising alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers an alternative with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods, necessitating alternatives like PDH. Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and thermodynamic limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. ODHP, an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic constraints but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2 as a soft oxidant in PDH presents a promising solution, potentially enhancing propylene yield through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation, yet faces challenges with catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking favoring ethylene and FCC with limited propylene output, struggles to meet rising demand, especially in Western Europe. ODHP presents an exothermic, energy-efficient alternative to endothermic dehydrogenation, directly addressing thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, direct route to propylene, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. Oxidant choice is pivotal, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses by utilizing SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, the addition of SO2 increases propane conversion while reducing propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature requirements for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane, releasing heat, and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 as an oxidant minimizes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production, offering a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation is hindered by side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to mitigate these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, particularly via steam cracking, encounters significant challenges. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably when using oxygen as an oxidant, which can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air increases costs. Precise oxygen dosing is essential to avoid over-oxidation, highlighting the specific challenges associated with its use in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene into CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective approach. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation and byproducts, necessitating costly oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control and risks catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for suitable catalysts and reactor designs to balance its cost-effectiveness with potential yield reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and elevated temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. Interestingly, H2S in the feedstock can enhance propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. However, oxygen's unselective combustion limits alkene selectivities, especially at higher conversions, affecting propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamic issues, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and unsuitable for remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient solution. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly with oxygen, which can cause side reactions and reduce propylene yield. A major challenge is developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while preventing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights challenges in current production methods, spurring interest in dedicated synthesis like ODHP. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, impacting its viability as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, with commercialization potential yet to be realized.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking confronts high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP presents a more efficient, cost-effective solution with potential emission reductions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity without over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the importance of oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising alternative due to its exothermic nature, which avoids thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity. This highlights the need for careful oxidant selection in ODHP to maximize efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and rely on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion but faces challenges in oxidant choice. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and affects olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents new challenges, mainly controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen, as highlighted in quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using molecular oxygen addresses these issues by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has a limitation of low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields, high temperatures causing side reactions, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a soft oxidant, beneficial for PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and shifting the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and chromium reduction, as reported by Zheng et al. (2005) and Zhang et al. (2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant enhances safety and efficiency, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    