Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to ethylene preference and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial success, addressing the growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity, reduces deep oxidation risk, but may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses propylene production's equilibrium limitations by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity at high temperatures. SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity, illustrating the trade-offs in this method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures and enhances propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike oxygen, CO2 minimizes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant to start the reaction, tackles these problems. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to prevent complete oxidation and boost ODH selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, vital for numerous chemicals, encounters high costs and sustainability challenges with traditional non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers enhanced energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, selectivity to propylene is constrained when using oxygen as an oxidant due to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a propylene supply-demand gap, highlighting ODHP's potential. ODHP benefits from exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it faces the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, impacting propylene yield. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are key to mitigating these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred ODHP oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, posing risks of over-oxidation to carbon oxides and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, its use presents challenges like selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but struggles with propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Developing catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, making alternatives like ODHP, which enhances propane conversion and propene yield, attractive. ODHP could serve as a CO2 utilisation method, but using oxygen as an oxidant presents new challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, poses safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial potential. Combining high propane conversion with high propylene selectivity remains a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion but struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation and side reactions, while CO2 is safer but less effective, potentially causing additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, minimizes coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing some issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, as evidenced by the ongoing search for a more selective catalyst in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and thermodynamic limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but selectivity issues due to over-oxidation persist. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers benefits by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and potentially enhancing propylene yield through a two-step pathway or direct oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic barriers. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but CO2 serves as a safer, milder, and more available oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene and thermodynamic constraints in current production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for innovative technologies. ODHP, an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency but faces challenges with oxygen use, leading to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Innovative reactor configurations and methods could enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, struggle with high energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP presents a more direct and potentially cleaner route, boasting energy efficiency. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation risk, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects product selectivity, catalyst stability, and overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations have sparked interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), notably using SO2 as an oxidant. SO2 boosts propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures, slightly affecting propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting ODHP's potential and challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements for significant yields are addressed by ODHP. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in ODHP reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues but faces the risk of overoxidation and reaction instability when using oxygen. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, although they have yet to achieve yields comparable to current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) emerges as a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, ODHP's limitations, notably with oxidant selection, are substantial. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, reducing selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex, whereas ODHP offers a more efficient route. However, ODHP's limitations, especially with oxidant selection, are significant. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and raises safety concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating controlled conditions and diluents. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap. ODHP, an on-purpose propene technology, excels with favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, yet struggles with over-oxidation control, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents an energy-efficient and selective solution, yet oxidant choice is critical. Oxygen use risks overoxidation to carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen boosts selectivity but raises costs. Oxygen complicates temperature control, necessitating advanced catalysts and reactor designs to prevent hotspots and catalyst deactivation by coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke. However, oxygen limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion and over-oxidation, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity and suppresses over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but struggles with propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capped at about 30% yield. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but it faces challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. The need for catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating are key issues. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique challenges, highlighting the importance of oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, particularly with oxygen as an oxidant. The elusive goal of combining high propane conversion and selectivity hinders ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and costly. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions compared to O2, which can lead to over-oxidation and decreased propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces supply shortages due to high demand. Current production, via steam cracking and propane dehydrogenation, is energy-intensive and suffers from catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic constraints but risks overoxidation with oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite advancements with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, oxygen can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective alternative using propane, potentially improving conversion efficiency. However, it encounters limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production from conventional methods, highlighting the need for alternatives. Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process not bound by thermodynamic limitations, is attractive but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a solution by utilizing CO2, potentially removing coke, and shifting the equilibrium towards propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and Cr(VI) reduction remains a challenge. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, enhancing propylene yield through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers improvements by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and avoiding thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely enhances process selectivity and mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency and directly produces propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance is crucial for the economic attractiveness of alkane-based chemical processes. Despite challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium issues, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing propane conversion but at the cost of decreased propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high energy demands, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields, are a challenge. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to trigger reactions, potentially bypassing high temperatures and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control overoxidation and boost selectivity (Quote 5), though none have achieved yields comparable to industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing sustainability and cost issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke formation. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption and low selectivity issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective solution, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control and can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, emphasizing the need for suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's ability to inhibit coke formation, enhancing propene selectivity. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields and posing safety concerns. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation, but selectivity decreases with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields to under 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking struggles with low yields and selectivity as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand necessitates on-purpose propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but faces a cap at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 and Cl2 are unsuitable due to reactivity and non-selectivity, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but needs a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, whereas ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized solution. However, ODHP faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane complicate selectivity control in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods, making ODHP a promising process with higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. The use of CO2 in ODHP is attractive for chemical CO2 utilization. However, the role of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP is underexplored, marking a critical area for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with declining selectivity at higher conversion rates and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 C, leading to various by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but struggles with similar issues, making high propane conversion and propylene selectivity elusive and impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP significantly cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, potentially decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective alternative using propane, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the process exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, but may lead to extra coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant mitigates deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, offering advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing some issues. However, it has limitations, notably low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, as seen in the ongoing search for a more selective catalyst in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. Direct dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is an attractive alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation. Catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also active in CO2PDH, with Cr and Ga-based materials showing the most promise.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations, are mitigated by ODHP, which is energy-efficient and eliminates catalyst regeneration needs. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant addresses these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outpaces production by steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its effectiveness. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies must focus on catalyst performance and innovative process designs to address these issues, aiming for comparable yields to current olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy use and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. Oxidant selection is critical, affecting the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures but introduces trade-offs: while boosting propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting oxidant selection challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. DDP's high temperature requirements and thermodynamic limits are overcome by ODHP, which uses CO2 as a mild oxidant. This reduces operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, and curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, as per quote [3] and [5].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate reactions without high temperatures, but risks overoxidation and reaction runaway when using oxygen. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, these systems haven't matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable methods, faces challenges. ODHP offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Propylene yields, while promising, remain below industrial implementation levels, highlighting ongoing challenges in catalyst development. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate over-oxidation, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more direct and efficient route, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks. Controlled conditions and precise dosing are crucial to prevent over-oxidation and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene's supply-demand gap drives interest in ODHP, which, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, could outperform non-oxidative methods. However, preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2 remains a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, like high energy use and low selectivity, are addressed by ODHP, which is more energy-efficient and selective. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, despite its benefits. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs mitigate these problems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. Its use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, worsened by a growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2, though more feasible, needs a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's heat are critical. Oxygen's role in side reactions complicates selectivity control in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propylene conversion and yield than non-oxidative methods, aligning with CO2 utilization strategies by using it as an oxidant. However, the specific challenges of employing oxygen in ODHP are underexplored, indicating a research gap in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, which diminishes selectivity as conversion increases. Propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius leads to various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces challenges with propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, raises safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial potential. Combining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains an elusive goal, impacting its commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP significantly reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints but risks overoxidation to carbon oxides when using oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active catalysts, oxygen's role as an oxidant presents a significant challenge in ODHP, as it can cause overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides, affecting process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers efficient conversion but faces oxidant selection challenges. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and cracking, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, avoiding overoxidation, lacks heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation from coke formation and active species separation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, highlighting the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation poses a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, though rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction is a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy costs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, eliminates regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds production in Western Europe, where steam cracking favors ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues underscore the need for new technologies. ODHP directly produces propylene with improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, addressing the limitations of dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 by-product. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are critical for economic viability in alkane-based chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires costly separation. Nitrous oxide enhances selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, leading to interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity and conversion at high temperatures, offering a viable alternative with distinct advantages. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed, highlighting a limitation. Specific oxidant selection plays a crucial role in this method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures, enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and suppressing over-oxidation, thus minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to address these issues but risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion, though they haven't matched industrial yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex, with unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route to propylene, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and precise control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas impacts have widened the propylene supply-demand gap, spotlighting ODHP as a promising alternative. ODHP boasts thermodynamic advantages and reduced coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. Yet, it grapples with over-oxidation risks, threatening propene's conversion to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and rely on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant for its selectivity, can limit alkene selectivities due to unselective reactions, leading to over-oxidation and decreased propene yields. Despite promoting high yields, selectivity losses occur with increased conversion, affecting propene production.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, addressing growing propene demand and issues with current production techniques. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents unique challenges, highlighting the need for further research. This underscores ODHP's potential while acknowledging its limitations, particularly in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably using oxygen, presents safety issues, hindering ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is costly, energy-intensive, and yields are reduced. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, underscoring the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an attractive alternative due to its exothermic nature, which eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion but grapples with oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a gentler oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, yet may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. ODHP can lower temperatures but risks overoxidation, reducing propylene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates deep oxidation, minimizes coke formation, and boosts propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via methods like steam cracking, faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting conversion. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand highlights the limitations of conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to thermodynamic constraints and high-temperature side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a solution by mitigating coke formation and potentially shifting the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a low-energy alternative, eliminating catalyst regeneration and thermodynamic limits. However, oxygen use can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as an oxidant in ODHP mitigates these issues, providing a safer and more favorable process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and FCC, underscore the need for alternatives. ODHP directly produces propylene with improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, presenting new challenges. The effectiveness of catalysts and innovative process designs will determine the success of ODHP, offering a potential solution to the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route with fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. Oxidant selection is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity per pass at high temperatures, increasing propane conversion but with reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion, and curbs carbon oxide production by preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently costly and unsustainable, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. Recent studies suggest CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and yield unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, adding to costs and requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap highlights the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its exothermic reactions and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an efficient alternative to non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the key challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation, a scientific hurdle in its application.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen use risks overoxidation and unwanted carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen increases selectivity but also costs. Precise management, suitable catalysts, and reactor designs are crucial for temperature control in the presence of oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures and reduces coke formation, addressing these issues. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosions. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking suffers from low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which further decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, hindering industrial application, and bromine offers greater feasibility but necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The key challenge is developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, poses safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP presents a more efficient, cost-effective solution, potentially reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to growing demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids these thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy use, low selectivity, and economic strain. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation of propylene to carbon monoxide and dioxide, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and boosts propane conversion, offering significant advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, operates at lower temperatures and reduces coke formation, effectively addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not equilibrium-limited but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2 but can deactivate rapidly due to coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and faces thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation [1][2]. ODHP, as an exothermal process, offers improved energy efficiency and aligns with market needs [8]. However, it incurs higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity and selectivity, is critical for the economic viability of alkane-based processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially cleaner route, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy for separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is crucial, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, particularly with SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity at high temperatures. SO2 enhances propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures, enhancing propane conversion through H2 consumption, and minimizing carbon oxide production by preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, could mitigate endothermic issues and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalyst system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from petroleum is costly and unsustainable. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, ODHP faces challenges with low propylene yields and catalyst longevity. Maintaining high propylene selectivity under high propane conversion is critical. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Recent studies suggest CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges in oxidant selection, notably with oxygen. Oxygen's use can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and requires precise control to prevent over-oxidation and safety risks, increasing costs from air separation and dosing.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, leveraging exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability to improve efficiency. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant choice. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation, leading to carbon oxides and temperature control issues, necessitating precise control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but can lead to over-oxidation and decreased yields due to unselective combustion. H2S in the feed improves propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high yields, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low yields as propylene is a by-product. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers improvements but is capped by propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and favorable only at high temperatures, and Br2 reactions, though more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like steam cracking are energy-intensive and centralized. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection; using oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control in ODHP more difficult.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand necessitates improved production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents undocumented challenges, a critical area needing further exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 C. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, including selectivity decline and propane cracking. Oxidant choice is critical, with oxygen presenting safety concerns. The elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation highlights ongoing challenges, far from realizing its commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions. However, oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, lack selectivity, and are economically strained. ODHP, using propane, aims to improve efficiency but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP could mitigate high temperature needs due to its exothermic nature but risks overoxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. This addresses the increasing demand for olefins while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, highlighting the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and thermodynamic limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but selectivity issues due to over-oxidation persist. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, shifting the PDH equilibrium to favor propylene production. Oxide catalysts, especially those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a low-energy, catalyst-free process, overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC struggles to meet growing demand, particularly in regions favoring ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation hinder efficiency. ODHP directly addresses these issues by producing propylene exothermically, enhancing energy efficiency over endothermal processes. However, oxygen use in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are pivotal for economic viability in alkane-based chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and emits greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation. N2O as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity but may lower activity and increase costs, highlighting the pivotal role of oxidant choice in affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity and propane conversion at high temperatures, highlighting its potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, driving the need for efficient on-purpose methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which CO2 curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to mitigate these. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to improve selectivity and control overoxidation, though current systems do not surpass industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking. This approach, highlighted in a review by Cavani et al. and studies by Ovsitser et al., aims to improve propylene yields and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity necessitates controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions, increasing costs due to oxygen separation and precise dosing requirements.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose methods. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and reduced coke formation, enhancing efficiency over non-oxidative processes. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and lack selectivity, relying on diminishing petroleum resources. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, complicating the process. Precise temperature management is crucial to prevent catalyst deactivation, and suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and elevated temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation, thanks to oxygen's presence, which boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation and safety issues. H2S in the feedstock can further enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. However, oxygen's unselective reactions limit alkene selectivities, and selectivity drops with higher conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the declining propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion and complicating propylene separation. ODHP aims to improve yields but faces the challenge of propylene's oxidation, achieving a maximum yield of about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are fast but non-selective; I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures; bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have limitations, particularly in energy efficiency and scalability, making them unsuitable for remote areas. ODHP presents a decentralized alternative with potential energy savings. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential for propane activation under mild conditions, controlling selectivity and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 usage beneficial for chemical CO2 utilization and syngas production. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents significant challenges not well-addressed in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP impacts safety and process stability, hindering its commercial potential, as achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity remains elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and costly, with byproduct generation. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective process, notably using CO2 as an oxidant, which reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges due to high demand and limitations in traditional methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures but introduces the risk of overoxidation to carbon oxides when using oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite advancements with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's limitations are evident in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation of propylene. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic constraints and high-temperature side reactions, necessitating catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limits but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting equilibrium and removing coke, yet catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction remains problematic. Cr and Ga-based catalysts are most active and selective in CO2PDH, but rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction limits their effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as an oxidant enhances safety and selectivity, offering a safer and more controlled alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can result in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and lower-emission route. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and necessitates energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves propene selectivity, mitigating deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, leading to interest in ODHP as an alternative. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, yet it increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting the method's trade-offs. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are acknowledged but not elaborated upon.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and unlike molecular oxygen, minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway, but catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help control overoxidation and improve selectivity. Despite progress, no catalytic system matches current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution with higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. To address this, CO2 is proposed as a mild oxidant, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, thus enhancing ODHP's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity, which is a critical limitation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a supply-demand gap for propylene, highlighting the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, avoiding coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption and selectivity issues, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, ODHP using oxygen can cause overoxidation, leading to byproducts. Oxygen's abundance and low cost are benefits, but its use requires careful management.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but can cause over-oxidation, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway, while oxygen's unselective combustion reactions lead to selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but faces a 30% cap due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, require a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their application in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a decentralized alternative with potential energy efficiency. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing safety is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane add to the selectivity challenge in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for alternatives to current production methods, which may impact co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a chemical feedstock. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces underexplored challenges, impacting its viability as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly using oxygen, complicates the process, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, suffer from high energy costs and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially increasing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs and emissions compared to traditional methods. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces supply issues due to high demand. Current production, via steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation, is constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates efficiently at lower temperatures, overcoming these limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity. Despite advancements with redox-active catalysts, oxygen's presence can overoxidize olefins into carbon oxides, impacting reactant use and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, yet struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, effective in hydrogen consumption, lacks compensatory heat, potentially increasing coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high-temperature side reactions, whereas ODHP is exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2 in PDH offers a pathway to utilize CO2 and remove coke, but catalysts deactivate rapidly due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but experience swift deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene outpaces production by steam cracking and FCC, constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct, exothermic route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient route with fewer co-products. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant choice. Oxygen can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant selection is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering higher selectivity at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 to the feed increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation, addressing the limitations of DDP.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant, aims to address these issues by offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation (Quote 2). However, the use of oxygen in ODHP presents the risk of overoxidation to CO and CO2 and potential reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have yet matched the yields of established olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's potential is limited by selectivity issues when using oxygen as an oxidant, leading to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially improving catalyst performance and process efficiency. Yields in propylene from ODHP have not yet reached levels interesting for industrial implementation, and maintaining high selectivity to propylene under high propane conversion conditions is a main direction for future development. The attainment of high selectivity to olefins via ODHP is limited by the use of O2 as an oxidant, due to the over-oxidation of both fed paraffins and produced olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant can potentially improve the process by turning it towards an exothermic character and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP presents an energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges with oxygen use, leading to CO and CO2 formation and reduced propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity requires diluents and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation and control runaway reactions, impacting process costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap. ODHP, an on-purpose propene technology, offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially outperforming non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-demanding and depends on depleting oil resources. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective solution, yet faces constraints, notably in choosing oxidants. Oxygen, while plentiful, risks overoxidation and hotspots, complicating temperature regulation and boosting coke formation, which deactivates catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation and decreased yields. H2S in the feed boosts propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use results in selectivity losses with higher conversion, capping propene yields at under 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields, but they are capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 and Cl2 are unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 offers a more feasible option, but resolving polyhalogenation selectivity requires a higher propane to bromine ratio, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and not suitable for remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for efficient production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, impacting its viability as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation tendency and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, with oxygen selection posing safety concerns that hinder its commercial potential, as achieving high conversion and selectivity remains elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally impactful. ODHP presents a more efficient alternative, potentially reducing energy consumption and costs. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further decreases costs and emissions compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, like dehydrogenation, have limitations: thermodynamic constraints for propane conversion and catalyst deactivation from coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective alternative using propane, potentially improving conversion efficiency. However, it encounters limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, effective in hydrogen consumption, lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but faces issues with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP addresses these by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene outpaces conventional production methods, which are limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, but direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low conversion rates and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet selectivity issues due to over-oxidation persist. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 to mitigate coke formation and shift the equilibrium, favoring propylene production. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but can deactivate due to coke and Cr reduction. Despite these challenges, CO2PDH presents a viable solution to the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations are addressed by ODHP, which reduces energy use and eliminates catalyst regeneration. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, offering a milder and readily available alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, coupled with thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation in current methods, highlights the need for innovative technologies. ODHP, being exothermal, offers improved energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Innovative catalysts and process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial viability, addressing the limitations of traditional methods while presenting its own set of challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and yield dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs. Oxidant selection is pivotal: oxygen increases yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly separation, while N2O enhances selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. Balancing these factors optimizes ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production by using SO2 to enhance selectivity at high temperatures. However, while SO2 boosts propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting ODHP's potential and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates economical on-purpose production methods, as current co-production falls short. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited and requires high temperatures. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 minimizes carbon oxides production, making ODHP a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with an oxidant could mitigate these, offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, enhance selectivity and activity, but none have achieved yields comparable to current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key chemical feedstock, is currently produced through costly and unsustainable non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and a simpler process, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges with oxygen use, leading to deep oxidation and reduced propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, and its separation from air increases costs, highlighting the need for precise oxygen dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in steam cracking widens the propylene demand-supply gap. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. A major challenge is avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, ODHP has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and hotspots, necessitating precise temperature control and advanced catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including coke formation. ODHP offers lower operating temperatures, reducing coke issues. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires strict control to prevent explosions and selectivity losses, limiting yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited to about 30% due to further oxidation of propylene. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application; bromine offers a more feasible alternative, but polyhalogenation selectivity requires a higher propane to bromine ratio, constraining conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their application in remote areas. ODHP presents a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Selectivity control is more challenging in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds, making efficient catalysts essential for managing exothermic reactions and preventing overheating.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene underscores the importance of ODHP, which boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. Its use in chemical CO2 utilization and production of hydrogen and CO as by-products is advantageous. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen in ODHP are less explored, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve this, yet faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly using oxygen, poses safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial potential, as achieving high conversion and selectivity remains elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking encounters high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues, with reduced yields. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution. Using CO2 as an oxidant further cuts costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underlining the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations by operating at lower temperatures without thermodynamic restraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, converting olefins to carbon oxides, which reduces efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive and have low propylene selectivity, relying on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, potentially increasing coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a lower temperature process with reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a more selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high temperatures that promote side reactions (Olah and Molnar, 2003). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity (Xu et al., 2006). Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 to mitigate coke formation while facing rapid catalyst deactivation (Zhang et al., 2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, requires catalyst regeneration, and faces thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these issues by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, leading to poor selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant enhances safety and efficiency, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    