Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Propylene production, mainly via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges meeting demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene is preferred [1]. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation [8], but using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity and selectivity, is crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, environmental impact, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a potentially cleaner and more direct route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can enhance propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation, though it has lower activity, higher costs, and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability, impacting the overall efficiency and environmental footprint of the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses propylene production challenges by overcoming equilibrium limitations, with SO2 as an oxidant enhancing selectivity and conversion rates at high temperatures. However, SO2 reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating a limitation. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are not detailed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which causes over-oxidation. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are crucial for suppressing complete oxidation and enhancing selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity, adding costs for oxygen separation from air, and requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, increasing low-cost ethene. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and depends on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, though it struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cost-effective and plentiful, poses risks of overoxidation to carbon oxides and complicates temperature control, crucial for avoiding hotspots and catalyst deactivation by coke formation. Successful ODHP requires optimized catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, affecting yields with increased conversion. Careful control is necessary to avoid over-oxidation and explosive mixtures.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and favorable only at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and unsuitable for remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand necessitates alternative production methods to supplement current techniques, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 as a promising oxidant for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen in ODHP presents significant challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP presents potential improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, is critical yet poses safety concerns and process challenges, as highlighted by the elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and energy usage while minimizing greenhouse gas emissions. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges, including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, which suffer from thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of O2 remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face high energy consumption, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion but grapples with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a lower reaction temperature but struggles with selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a promising soft oxidant in PDH, aiding in coke removal and shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, but face rapid deactivation from coke formation and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers improvements by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues, enhancing the process's safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations in current production methods, such as thermodynamic constraints and coking, highlight the need for alternatives. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, addressing thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. This underscores the demand for innovative technologies that can optimize propylene production while mitigating environmental impacts, as highlighted by the effectiveness of catalysts and process designs in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy consumption, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, directly converting propane to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and costly separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and raises environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses by employing SO2 as an oxidant, notably enhancing selectivity at elevated temperatures. However, while SO2 increases propane conversion, it concurrently reduces propylene selectivity compared to using pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates efficient production methods. DDP's high-temperature requirement limits its effectiveness. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures and enhances propane conversion by consuming H2, unlike molecular oxygen which can cause over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation is hindered by side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, by incorporating an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to enhance selectivity and conversion while controlling complete oxidation, though none have yet matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in a review by Cavani et al. and further research by Ovsitser et al.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and raising safety concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen's use necessitates controlled conditions, diluents, and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, adding to costs and complexity.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, highlighting ODHP's potential. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and prevents coke deposition, but must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy consumption and low selectivity are mitigated by ODHP, which is more energy-efficient and selective. Oxygen's use in ODHP, while abundant and cost-effective, risks overoxidation, requiring precise temperature control and advanced catalysts for successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet its use presents risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation, leading to selectivity losses.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is hindered by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, energy-efficient solution but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection, as oxygen can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Developing catalysts for mild propane activation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating are critical.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, making it a CO2 utilisation technique. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique, underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, being critical yet posing safety and process stability issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally problematic, with reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to decreased propylene selectivity due to propane over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and oil reliance. ODHP, using propane, promises more efficient conversion but grapples with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but requiring more energy, can lead to additional coke and competitive adsorption on catalysts, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: high temperatures required for olefin yields, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation (Quote 2). ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation (Quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, offering a promising solution (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for a more effective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds production from conventional methods, highlighting the need for alternatives. Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic, non-equilibrium-limited process, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), as a soft oxidant in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), is promising for utilizing greenhouse gas and mitigating coke formation, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, effective in non-oxidative PDH, also work in CO2PDH, though rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, no catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limit elimination. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant safely addresses these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand and limitations like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal methods. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. The success of ODHP hinges on catalyst performance and innovative process designs, aiming to match or exceed current technologies' yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and yield dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy needs and emissions. The choice of oxidant is critical: oxygen can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. Balancing higher yields with limitations such as over-oxidation and catalyst deactivation is key in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP targets to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity and propane conversion at high temperatures, albeit with lower propylene selectivity than pure propane feed. Oxygen's role in ODHP is less explored, offering a research opportunity.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outstrips current production, necessitating alternatives. DDP's thermodynamic constraints and high temperature requirements limit its efficiency. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which causes over-oxidation. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, addressing the need for on-purpose propylene production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these by potentially reducing limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no system has yet matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for numerous chemicals, faces sustainability and cost issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, yet using oxygen as an oxidant limits selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's increased use for ethene has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, could surpass non-oxidative methods. However, it faces the critical challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and depends on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while abundant, risks overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to product combustion and catalyst deactivation. Effective catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures, requiring careful control. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is hindered by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost yields but struggles with propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, still face polyhalogenation selectivity issues, constraining single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety are critical. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand drives the need for alternatives to conventional cracking, which can affect co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 as a promising oxidant for chemical CO2 utilization and syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve these metrics but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, poses safety issues, highlighting the difficulty in realizing propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high costs, energy consumption, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs, emissions, and energy use, and enhancing selectivity. However, O2 can cause over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is pivotal for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen can cause olefins to overoxidize into carbon oxides, impacting reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is critical. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, while not providing enough heat, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, though it may increase coke deposition and competitively adsorb on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can lower reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene outstrips conventional production methods, which are limited by low yields, equilibrium constraints, and high temperatures causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation affects propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising for utilizing CO2 and removing coke in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), but faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "ODHP tackles propylene production's energy-intensive, catalyst-dependent, and thermodynamically limited methods, offering lower energy consumption, no catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic freedom. However, O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, as a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues hinder efficiency. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs are needed to address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a more efficient route with lower energy requirements and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can enhance propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and necessitates energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, albeit with potential activity reduction, higher costs, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating a key trade-off in this method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, needing high temperatures for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant decreases operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these, but oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, help control complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, yet none have matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more efficient and direct route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions, and oxygen separation from air increases costs. Precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap drives interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an alternative to non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP improves efficiency and selectivity but faces challenges with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, complicating temperature control and risking catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for harnessing oxygen's benefits while mitigating risks in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like coke formation and high temperature requirements. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, mitigates coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propylene yields but poses over-oxidation risks, necessitating careful control to prevent yield decreases and safety hazards. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and inhibiting over-oxidation. However, oxygen's use results in selectivity losses at higher conversion rates, limiting yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields as by-products, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation is theoretically ideal for higher propylene yields but is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher yields but faces a cap at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 reactions, while more feasible, require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting gas reserve utilization in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The challenge is to find catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand underscores the need for efficient production methods, making ODHP an appealing alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes, with the added advantage of CO2 utilization. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces underexplored challenges, impacting its viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address this but faces similar challenges, especially in oxidant selection, impacting safety and efficiency. The elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation underscores ODHP's unrealized commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high costs, reduced yield, and energy inefficiency. ODHP offers a selective, cost-effective process with CO2 as an oxidant, reducing emissions and energy use. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice significantly impacts yield and selectivity in ODHP processes, highlighting the importance of careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a significant limitation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion. However, it struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, while safer, doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges from high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (quotes 2, 5, 6). ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks (quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant enables lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, as seen in the ongoing search for a more effective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle with low yields and equilibrium constraints, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). PDH, however, faces challenges like low conversion and thermodynamic limitations. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process not bound by thermodynamic limits, offers potential but suffers from propylene selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH presents an innovative solution by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, yet rapid catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but require managing issues like coke formation and Cr reduction, as highlighted by the research on Ga2O3 and chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. Oxygen use can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these problems effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outpaces production by current methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking limit its efficiency [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by producing propylene more efficiently due to its exothermal nature [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, emits pollutants, and produces diluting co-products. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner approach, potentially reducing energy consumption and emissions. However, the choice of oxidant presents challenges: oxygen increases propylene yield but risks deep oxidation and requires costly separation, while N2O enhances selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity, is more expensive, and raises environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances propane conversion and selectivity at high temperatures, offering an advantage. However, propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and simpler process, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can reduce propylene selectivity by forming CO and CO2 and raises safety issues due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers benefits over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. A key challenge is preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a hurdle for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and necessitates energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control and can cause catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with high energy use and coke formation. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, reduces coke and energy demands. Oxygen boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, requiring control. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and mitigating oxygen's over-oxidation issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the declining propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is hindered by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is capped at 30% due to consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2, though more feasible, necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting access to remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital for propane activation under mild conditions to avoid over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic reaction is crucial to prevent overheating, and the weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene strains current production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can produce syngas, aiding chemical CO2 utilization. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP is less explored, presenting a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, complicates the process. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial viability is hindered by rapid selectivity decline with conversion and significant propane cracking above 700 C.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy consumption, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP presents an efficient alternative, potentially reducing energy use and costs while minimizing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly when CO2 is used as an oxidant. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is critical. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP results in low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect, either by shifting the equilibrium through the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation, is significant. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction, as seen with Ga2O3 and chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a low-energy, catalyst-free process, overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant enhances safety and efficiency, mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces traditional production methods like steam cracking and FCC, constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking, addressing production challenges. However, oxygen use in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, presenting a trade-off for this promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, directly converting propane with environmental benefits. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and mitigates over-oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by employing SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, this method increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting the inherent trade-offs in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant [3] reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation [5]. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, reduces energy needs and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to prevent overoxidation and enhance selectivity (Quote 4), though none have matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene yield. Controlled conditions and precise dosing are necessary to prevent over-oxidation, increasing costs and safety concerns.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene boosts propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, outperforms non-oxidative methods. Yet, it must tackle over-oxidation challenges to prevent propene's conversion to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, like high energy consumption and low selectivity, are addressed by ODHP, which is more energy-efficient and selective. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Oxygen complicates temperature control and can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. While oxygen enhances propylene yields, it presents risks like over-oxidation and explosive mixtures, with selectivity losses at increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC faces low selectivity, declining further as ethane becomes favored. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, necessitates high temperatures, complicating product separation. ODHP could boost yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is overly reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine needs a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety, addressing the challenges posed by propane's weaker bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand underscores the need for improved production methods. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes, making it a promising CO2 utilization technique. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges that require further exploration, impacting its potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while promising, shares these issues and faces additional challenges in oxidant selection, notably the safety risks associated with oxygen, hindering its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is crucial for optimal yield in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and efficient conversion, but struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but less energetic, can increase coke formation and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, operates at lower temperatures and minimizes coke, addressing these issues. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited, yet over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for CO2 utilization and coke removal, but suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production due to ethylene preference and thermodynamic constraints in dehydrogenation, leading to rapid catalyst deactivation. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy needs and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly separation from air. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and increase costs. The oxidant choice is crucial, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion but sacrifices propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements for significant yields are addressed by ODHP. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in ODHP reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy input, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these issues, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen use can lead to overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to enhance selectivity and suppress overoxidation, though none have yet matched established industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by conventional methods is energy-intensive. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety issues due to its reactivity, adding costs for oxygen separation from air and requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas, highlights the need for alternative methods. ODHP offers an exothermic, lower-temperature reaction with enhanced catalyst stability, potentially outperforming non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy consumption and efficiency issues are addressed by ODHP, which offers a more selective process. However, ODHP faces challenges with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, which can lead to overoxidation and temperature control problems, risking catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke buildup. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing yields and posing explosion risks. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation, making ODHP a promising but carefully managed alternative.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields and selectivity but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal, with F2 being unsuitable due to its reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 causing non-selective reactions, and I2 reactions being slow and favorable only at high temperatures. Bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, restricting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative, but faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, leading to potential co-product yield compromises. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a chemical utilisation strategy and producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, with oxidant choice being critical. Oxygen use presents safety and process issues, hindering ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, suffer from high costs and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions while promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on depleting resources. ODHP offers a more efficient conversion but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and can cause additional coke deposition, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP could lower temperatures but risks overoxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. This process demonstrates trade-offs between lower temperatures and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low conversion and yield, requiring high temperatures that trigger side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic process, but over-oxidation hinders selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers advantages by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and shifting equilibrium, yet rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction remains a hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration issues, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a low-energy alternative, eliminating catalyst regeneration and thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP risks flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, providing a milder and readily available option.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges due to growing demand and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints, leading to catalyst deactivation from coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, producing propylene with improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, with co-products hindering efficiency. ODHP offers a more direct route, potentially reducing energy use and emissions. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant can increase propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates over-oxidation, though it may decrease activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is critical, influencing the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures, offering an alternative. However, SO2 addition increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating new methods. DDP's high energy needs limit its efficiency. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation, addressing DDP's limitations effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation is hindered by side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to address these issues by initiating the reaction differently. Oxygen, as an oxidant, however, poses risks of overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to control overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have yet matched the efficiency of current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via non-oxidative methods is costly and unsustainable. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially reducing catalyst coking and turning the process exothermic.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient route to propylene, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2. ODHP has potential for improved efficiency over non-oxidative methods due to exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, addressing the disparity in propylene supply and demand.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, lack selectivity, and depend on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, yet faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, necessitating strict temperature control to prevent hotspots and coke. Oxygen separation adds to costs. Successful ODHP implementation relies on suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via cracking and dehydrogenation faces challenges like high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant for its selectivity, can lead to over-oxidation of propene, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity but selectivity losses occur with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, impacting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited to about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and unsuitable for remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, notably with oxidant selection; oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights production challenges, which ODHP addresses by offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is promising for CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product production, but using oxygen presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's easier oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures, leading to by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, poses safety concerns, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally harmful. ODHP presents a more efficient and economical solution, potentially reducing emissions and byproducts. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits by saving energy and promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen's use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, encounter challenges such as thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity, despite advancements with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is critical. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but faces selectivity issues. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP mitigates overoxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, as highlighted in Quote [2].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic methods suffer from low yields and thermodynamic constraints, necessitating high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic, non-thermodynamically limited process but grapples with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a viable soft oxidant, utilizing greenhouse gas and aiding coke removal. CO2 shifts PDH equilibrium, boosting propylene yield through a two-step pathway or direct oxidation. Oxide catalysts, particularly Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. O2 use can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2, a safer oxidant, enhances ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints, leading to rapid catalyst deactivation, challenge current production methods. ODHP offers an exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can result in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, as highlighted by Lange [3].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and potentially cleaner route. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production encounters hurdles, with ODHP presenting itself as a viable alternative. Notably, using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity and boosts propane conversion at high temperatures, illustrating the method's advantages. However, this comes with lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, indicating limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and enhances propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and improve ODH activity and selectivity (Quote 5). Despite advancements, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this limitation, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks over-oxidation to CO and CO2, and its reactivity with hydrocarbons demands careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's surge in low-cost ethene production widened the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, such as exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it faces the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2, requiring careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and lack selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and requires energy for oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions, risking over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is counterbalanced by these risks. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency of expensive I2. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, potentially compromising yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature, impacting the method's potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, impacts safety and process stability, affecting ODHP's commercial viability. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously remains a significant hurdle for commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and emits high levels of pollutants. ODHP presents a more efficient and economical alternative, potentially reducing emissions and byproducts. Utilizing CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further decreases costs and energy consumption, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the importance of oxidant selection in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by high-energy requirements and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers a cost-effective solution with efficient conversion but grapples with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer from overoxidation, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, causing additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, decreasing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, offering advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP addresses these by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via conventional methods struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and unfavorable thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity challenges due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, beneficial for utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, favoring propylene production, but rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP addresses these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant enhances safety and efficiency, solving these problems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand and are limited by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP presents an exothermal, direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by traditional methods is energy-intensive and polluting. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route, with oxidant choice affecting product selectivity and catalyst stability. Oxygen increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation, while N2O enhances selectivity but may reduce activity and increase costs. ODHP balances energy efficiency, emissions reduction, and oxidant complexities, presenting a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP increases propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed, highlighting a trade-off in the method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient on-purpose methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production, and enhances propane conversion by consuming H2 in the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues by reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance ODHP activity and selectivity, yet none have achieved yields comparable to current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable non-oxidative methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. A proposed solution is the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could potentially turn the process exothermic and benefit catalyst coking, mitigating the over-oxidation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Precise oxygen dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation and prevent runaway reactions, which increases costs due to the need for separation from air.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, addressing this gap, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, yet using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and necessitates energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing coke formation, highlighting the need for suitable catalysts and reactor designs to address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence, which promotes selectivity for propene but also leads to unselective combustion, limiting alkene selectivities. Over-oxidation to carbon oxides and the need for controlled conditions to prevent explosions are limitations. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but selectivity decreases with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation. Adding H2S to the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which further reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically high-yielding, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP could enhance propylene yields, but is limited by consecutive propylene oxidation, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical; F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly with oxidant selection; oxygen use can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Effective catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction for safety. Selectivity control is more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP benefits include CO2 utilization and by-product generation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique challenges, highlighting the importance of careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher oxidation tendency and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, particularly with oxidant choice, where oxygen poses safety concerns. The elusive goal of propane oxydehydrogenation and its unrealized commercial potential highlight these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, suffer from high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP not only reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions but also promotes selective dehydrogenation without the risk of over-oxidation, unlike oxygen, which can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of O2 remains a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion. However, it's limited by oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and affects olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, can lower reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has a limitation of low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, underscoring the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic but struggles with propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative by utilizing greenhouse gas and enhancing propylene yield by shifting PDH equilibrium. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and chromium reduction, affecting its viability as a solution.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy demand, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including growing demand and thermodynamic constraints leading to rapid catalyst deactivation [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering a direct route to propylene with improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance is critical for the economic viability of alkane-based processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy for separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and increase costs. The oxidant choice is crucial, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP tackles propylene production's equilibrium limitations, offering high-temperature selectivity with SO2 as an oxidant. SO2 boosts propane conversion but impacts propylene selectivity, highlighting ODHP's dual nature of benefits and drawbacks.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy demands. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by releasing reaction heat and boosts propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to overcome these issues by potentially avoiding endothermic problems and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, complicating reaction control. To address this, catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation, enhancing selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no system has yet matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex, whereas ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably issues with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, requiring controlled reaction conditions and increasing process costs due to separation from air and precise dosing.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas's low-cost ethene. ODHP offers an alternative with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, low selectivity, and depend on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, particularly in choosing the right oxidant. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and temperature control issues, which can lead to hotspots and potential catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation, and using oxygen as an oxidant increases propene selectivity and yields. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures, with selectivity losses at higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity as by-products, worsened by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is limited to about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting efficiency. ODHP offers a decentralized, energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are required to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions. Oxygen's role in ODHP highlights the need for selectivity control, which is more challenging due to propane's chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand spotlights issues in current production methods, making ODHP a significant alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents unique challenges, emphasizing the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, with propylene's higher reactivity leading to declining selectivity. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements but shares similar challenges, with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, introducing safety concerns. Commercialization of propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally harmful. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective solution with potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy use. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its environmental benefits. However, oxygen poses a risk of over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply gap due to high demand. Current production, via steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, is constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these issues but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, leading to overoxidation and reduced efficiency. Despite advancements with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, oxygen's presence can overoxidize olefins to carbon oxides, affecting reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face high energy demands, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective alternative using propane, potentially with higher conversion efficiency. However, it encounters limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can boost catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may not provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation issues. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates these issues by preventing deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and enhancing propane conversion, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP enables lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, highlighting the process's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to low yields and equilibrium limitations in conventional methods, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is thermodynamically unfavorable, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction. Chromium and gallium-based catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity in CO2PDH.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by lowering energy use, eliminating regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, but CO2, a safer and milder oxidant, improves selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    