Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production, especially in Western Europe, due to dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. ODHP offers a more exothermic, energy-efficient process, addressing these challenges. However, oxygen use in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic hurdles. Innovative catalysts and reactor designs are essential for performance enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and emissions. ODHP offers a cleaner, more efficient route, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring separation. N2O as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production by offering higher selectivity per pass, particularly with SO2 as an oxidant at high temperatures. However, SO2 boosts propane conversion while reducing propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermal limitations and high temperature requirements for significant yields are addressed by ODHP. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in ODHP lowers operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and curbs carbon oxides production by preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic issues and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite advancements, no catalytic system matches the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand highlights the need for sustainable production methods. Current techniques are costly and inefficient. ODHP presents a viable alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and a simpler process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant limits selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and produces by-products. ODHP is a more energy-efficient alternative. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, requiring diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, with ODHP offering an alternative by leveraging exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Traditional propylene production methods are energy-intensive, lack selectivity, and rely on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation, creating unwanted carbon oxides, and causes temperature control issues, potentially deactivating the catalyst. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures and reduces coke, addressing these issues. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to avoid explosions. Its effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is balanced by the risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC suffers from low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, faces thermodynamic limitations requiring high temperatures, complicating product separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still needs a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and limit natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as oxygen can cause side reactions, reducing propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene highlights challenges in current production methods, making ODHP an attractive alternative due to higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilization as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while promising, faces similar challenges, especially selectivity decline and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, adds safety and process concerns, affecting commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking confronts high energy costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields. ODHP emerges as a more efficient, selective, and cost-effective solution. Utilizing CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts its advantages by conserving energy and enhancing selectivity. However, oxygen use poses the risk of over-oxidation, diminishing propylene selectivity, underlining the significance of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, have limitations: high energy input due to thermodynamic constraints and rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, resulting in inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy demands and low selectivity. ODHP, using propane, is potentially more efficient but has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and coke-induced deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant prevents deep oxidation, minimizes coke, and boosts propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions and necessitating catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, utilizes greenhouse gas, aids in coke removal, and can shift PDH equilibrium or directly oxidize propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder alternative, addressing these issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges due to growing demand and limitations like thermodynamic constraints and coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, and CO2 production adds environmental and economic concerns. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a more energy-efficient process, but the use of oxygen as an oxidant poses issues with higher energy losses and CO2 by-product, affecting economic and environmental aspects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity, highlighting trade-offs in oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces temperatures by releasing heat, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to mitigate these issues by reducing endothermicity and coke buildup. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help control overoxidation with their high thermal stability and reducibility. Despite progress, no catalytic system has yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative methods, faces significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) emerges as a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of current ODHP methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges in oxidant selection, particularly with oxygen. Oxygen's effectiveness is offset by risks of deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas impacts have widened the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP, offering exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, improves efficiency over non-oxidative methods. A key challenge is preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on oil. ODHP offers improved energy efficiency and selectivity. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and elevated temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke. Oxygen, a favored oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, limiting yields. Despite oxygen's benefits, selectivity decreases with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production through steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene as a by-product, with ethane's preference in steam crackers further reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low capital investment, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but faces challenges with consecutive propylene oxidation, limiting yield to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but still struggle with polyhalogenation selectivity, affecting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting the use of remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative but faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can trigger side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are essential for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene strains current production methods, potentially compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 as an oxidant presenting a promising CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces specific challenges not well-documented in literature, impacting the method's potential as an alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidizability and increased propane cracking. ODHP aims to enhance these metrics but faces similar challenges, notably the difficulty in achieving high conversion and selectivity. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, mitigating these issues. However, it encounters limitations in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene's fate due to overoxidation risks, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, mitigates these by enabling lower temperatures and reducing coke. However, it has low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations in direct dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic, non-equilibrium-limited process but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is promising for utilizing CO2 as a greenhouse gas, removing coke, and promoting the reaction by consuming hydrogen or directly oxidizing propane. Oxide catalysts, especially those containing Cr or Ga, are active but face rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction. The use of CO2 as an oxidant in PDH presents an attractive alternative, utilizing CO2 and promoting the reaction while addressing the challenges of conventional methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer, milder, and more readily available oxidant mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges, particularly in meeting demand and overcoming thermodynamic constraints and coking in dehydrogenation. ODHP presents an exothermal, direct route to propylene, enhancing energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Research efforts aim to develop catalysts and innovative process designs to address these issues, focusing on improved catalyst performance and reactor configurations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, making ODHP a cleaner, more direct alternative. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for separation. N2O improves propene selectivity, reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns. Oxidant choice impacts product selectivity and catalyst stability, with N2O showing potential for higher propylene selectivity and lower catalyst deactivation rates than oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering advantages, especially at high temperatures where SO2 as an oxidant enhances selectivity. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of reduced propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed, illustrating a key limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic constraints and high temperature requirements limit its effectiveness. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, addresses these issues by lowering operating temperatures, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation, offering a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these limitations, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). To mitigate complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are investigated (Quotes 4-5). Despite their promise, these catalysts have not yet achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these concerns. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly with oxygen as an oxidant leading to over-oxidation and reduced selectivity to olefins, are significant. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate over-oxidation, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance, as reported in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like steam cracking are energy-intensive. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is more energy-efficient but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, increasing costs for oxygen separation and requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's demand-supply gap highlights the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP, exothermic at lower temperatures, enhances catalyst stability, offering advantages over non-oxidative methods. A key challenge is avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, struggle with high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient alternative with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen can cause overoxidation and necessitate energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, affecting propylene yield and catalyst stability. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures and reduces coke formation, addressing these issues. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions, with selectivity losses at higher conversions due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is limited by consecutive oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, with a maximum yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency of expensive I2; bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Challenges include the need for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety. Propane's weaker bonds make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which ODHP addresses by offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is promising for CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP presents potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, posing safety and process issues. Achieving high propane conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive, hindering its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and costs. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces supply deficits due to growing demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are energy-intensive and suffer from catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers benefits such as lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing some issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, as noted in quote [2].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods, highlighting the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that trigger side reactions and coke buildup. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and avoids thermodynamic limits, but over-oxidation affects propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and addressing coke via the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in CO2PDH but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as an oxidant addresses these issues, making it a safer and preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation in current production methods highlight the need for alternatives. ODHP offers an exothermal, energy-efficient process for direct propylene production. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, presenting environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires costly separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher production costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing propane conversion, especially at high temperatures. However, this method results in lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane, highlighting a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), employing an oxidant, aims to address these challenges by initiating the reaction with the oxidant instead of high temperatures alone (Quote 2). However, using oxygen in ODHP risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are crucial for controlling oxidation and enhancing ODH efficiency and selectivity (Quote 5), though current systems haven't matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally non-oxidative and petroleum-based, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-demanding, whereas ODHP offers efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, making it a promising alternative. However, preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2 remains a key challenge.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and lack selectivity, issues that ODHP mitigates by offering a more efficient and selective process. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can lead to overoxidation and byproducts, necessitating precise temperature control and advanced catalysts to prevent deactivation. Oxygen's use also involves costly separation from air. Successful ODHP relies on suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and energy use. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields. Careful control is necessary to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP improves propylene yields, yet poses risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's selectivity promotion for propene is counterbalanced by unselective combustion reactions, causing selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by a shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields, but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine, though more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their flexibility. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative, but faces challenges, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to manage over-oxidation and prevent overheating, and controlling selectivity in ODHP is challenging due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, making it a promising chemical CO2 utilisation process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, as noted in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity causes selectivity to drop. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP, aiming to improve these issues, faces similar challenges, particularly in oxidant selection, where oxygen use raises safety concerns, hindering its commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces environmental impact and byproduct generation challenges. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to supply deficits and limitations in traditional methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations but encounters issues with oxygen use, leading to overoxidation and inefficiency. Despite progress with redox-active catalysts, oxygen can cause olefins to overoxidize into carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on depleting resources. ODHP offers higher efficiency and lower costs but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, potentially increasing coke deposition and affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can lower temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, offering advantages over O2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces issues like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, counters these by enabling lower temperatures and reducing coke, but struggles with low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not limited by equilibrium, addressing selectivity issues but facing over-oxidation challenges. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 to remove coke and shift the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidize propane to propylene. However, catalysts like Ga2O3 and Cr-based ones face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant is safer and resolves these issues, as it is milder and readily available.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC is constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation, leading to challenges in meeting demand. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal route, enhancing energy efficiency. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, highlighting the need for innovative technologies that leverage ODHP's advantages while addressing these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly air separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts conversion at high temperatures and improves selectivity per pass. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures, enhances propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these by offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally costly and unsustainable, faces challenges addressed by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), offering higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, increasing costs from air separation, and requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP, with its thermodynamic advantages and coke prevention, enhances catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Traditional propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and lack selectivity, relying on diminishing petroleum resources. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and necessitates energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control, risking combustion of desired products and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Successful ODHP implementation depends on appropriate catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, increases propene selectivity but poses over-oxidation risks. Adding H2S to the feed mixture boosts propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and mitigating over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, requires high temperatures, complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, needs a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. A key challenge in ODHP is controlling selectivity due to propane's weaker bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, leading to co-product yield compromises. ODHP emerges as a promising alternative, boasting higher propane conversion and propene yield, and addressing environmental concerns by utilizing CO2. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces specific challenges that require further investigation, impacting the method's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen selection in ODHP introduces safety concerns, highlighting the need for careful oxidant choice, as achieving high propane conversion and selectivity remains elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially lowering greenhouse gas emissions. Selecting CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits, whereas oxygen risks over-oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to supply deficits and dehydrogenation limitations, including thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative that overcomes thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and efficient conversion, yet struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, as highlighted in quotes 2 and 6, face challenges including high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), as an alternative, reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature (quote 7), but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen (quote 8) can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. This method balances benefits and limitations in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that spur side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but encounter deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, it struggles with flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC struggles to meet growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, due to thermodynamic constraints and coking issues that limit conversion and catalyst life [2]. ODHP presents as a direct, exothermal route to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, direct route, with oxygen enhancing yields but risking deep oxidation. N2O boosts propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity and increase costs, with environmental concerns. Oxidant choice is critical, balancing yield, reaction pathway, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion at high temperatures, enhancing selectivity but leading to lower propylene yields compared to pure propane feed, illustrating its advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, prompting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 as an oxidant prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant, potentially avoiding endothermic issues and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and boost selectivity, though they haven't yet matched industrial olefin production yields (Quotes 4-6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and simpler process, addressing these issues. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, increasing low-cost ethene. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity, but it has limitations, especially with oxidant choice. Oxygen can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, necessitating precise control to prevent catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to potential over-oxidation, decreasing yields. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, impacting propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more viable option but still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are vital for propane activation under mild conditions while preventing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial to avoid overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the strain on current production methods, prompting interest in alternatives. ODHP offers benefits like higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2-based ODHP showing potential for chemical CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, hindered by propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these but faces similar issues, notably with propylene's reactivity. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, adds safety concerns, impacting commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking encounters high energy use, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits and thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, leading to high energy demands and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers an economical propane feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't fully address the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke formation and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but struggles with selectivity due to overoxidation. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing limitations of current methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's demand outstrips conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low yields and thermodynamic constraints, necessitating high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limits, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a promising PDH alternative, utilizing CO2 and reducing coke formation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, addressing propylene production challenges and ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints, are mitigated by ODHP, which reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, which favors ethylene. Dehydrogenation is constrained by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers an exothermal, energy-efficient route to propylene, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are critical for ODHP's success, addressing the need for new technologies in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and polluting. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, potentially reducing emissions and co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and necessitates energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation but may have lower activity and higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP improves selectivity per pass, especially at high temperatures, though it decreases propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limits and high temperature requirements are overcome by ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant, which reduces operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen that fosters over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to address these, but oxygen can lead to overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, help control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, yet current yields lag behind industrial standards.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's potential is limited by the choice of oxidant; oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, reducing olefin selectivity. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, mainly via steam cracking, is energy-demanding. ODHP offers a direct, more efficient route but faces challenges, notably with oxygen as an oxidant. Oxygen can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene widens the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, could outperform non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the significant challenge of propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical to overcome these challenges, ensuring temperature control and preventing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation, but faces oxidant selection challenges. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to yields below 30%. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial use, and bromine, while more feasible, necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their applicability. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Selectivity control in ODHP is crucial to manage exothermic reactions safely and suppress over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand pushes for alternatives to current production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing environmental concerns through CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique, under-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces similar challenges, highlighting its unfulfilled commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, costs, environmental concerns, and lower yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process, notably when CO2 is used as an oxidant, reducing costs, emissions, and energy needs. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, it struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2 enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like propane dehydrogenation, requires high temperatures and expensive Pt catalysts, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could lower these temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can prevent deep oxidation and reduce coke formation, favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures and reduces coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a solution, though it faces low conversion and yield issues due to thermodynamic constraints and high-temperature side reactions (Olah and Molnar, 2003). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen is exothermic and not limited by equilibrium, but struggles with propylene selectivity (Xu et al., 2006). Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers CO2 utilization and mitigates coke formation (Zangeneh et al., 2011). Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction (Michorczyk et al., 2011; Zhang et al., 2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits are addressed by ODHP, which reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer soft oxidant, mitigates these problems effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, highlights the limitations of current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP presents an exothermic, energy-efficient alternative to endothermal dehydrogenation, addressing the need for new technologies. However, using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. The effectiveness of the catalyst and innovative process designs are crucial for the success of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and environmentally impactful. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient alternative, with oxygen as an oxidant boosting yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2. Nitrous oxide enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and increase costs. The choice of oxidant significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes equilibrium limitations in propylene production, enhancing selectivity per pass and propane conversion at high temperatures. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed, illustrating both its advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient on-purpose methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizes carbon oxides production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway, necessitating the study of catalysts to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) emerges as a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and a simpler process. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. To mitigate this limitation, the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, addressing the core challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy use and process complexity. ODHP is more energy-efficient but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lower propylene selectivity due to deep oxidation, increase costs with air separation, and require precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas's low-cost ethene, motivating on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, addressing non-oxidative methods' limitations. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, leading to undesired carbon oxides and temperature control issues, which can deactivate the catalyst. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent these problems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence, enhancing propene selectivity. However, oxygen limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreasing propene yields. Oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields is counterbalanced by the need for careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and extensive selectivity losses with increasing conversion, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking suffers from low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising for its high selectivity and low investment, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but faces the challenge of propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yield to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and large-scale, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection, as oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential for propane activation under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene highlights the need for efficient production methods, making ODHP a promising alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes, with the added benefit of CO2 utilisation for syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, shares similar challenges, with oxidant selection, especially using oxygen, introducing safety concerns and process upsets. Achieving high propane conversion and high propylene selectivity simultaneously remains an elusive goal.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are costly, environmentally impactful, and yield-reducing. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective alternative. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, enhancing selectivity. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, lowering propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and efficient conversion but is limited by oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but struggling to offset dehydrogenation's endothermic nature, can lead to additional coke and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges due to high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures, as it is exothermic. However, this method risks overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide, affecting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical, with CO2 being a better option than oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation and reduce coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP addresses some issues but introduces others, highlighting the complex role of oxidants in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces challenges with low conversion and yields, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a concern due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, presents a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 experiences rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as reported by Zheng et al. (2005) and Zhang et al. (2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. O2 use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, making ODHP a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, hindered by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP presents an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative to endothermal dehydrogenation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies are needed to improve catalyst performance and process design for efficient alkane conversion to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion at high temperatures but compromises propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating its advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates efficient production methods. DDP's thermodynamic constraints and high temperature requirements limit its effectiveness. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production, offering advantages over molecular oxygen in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, addresses these by avoiding high temperatures. However, oxygen use poses risks of overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and boost selectivity, yet none have achieved yields comparable to current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, vital for numerous chemicals, encounters high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity. Precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation, adding to costs with air separation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's demand-supply gap highlights ODHP's potential. ODHP, with its thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, could outperform non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and depends on depleting petroleum. ODHP offers higher efficiency and propylene selectivity. However, it faces challenges with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, impacting catalyst performance. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially leading to over-oxidation and decreased yields. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feedstock can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's benefits, it presents challenges such as extensive selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application; bromine offers a more feasible option but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, restricting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly with oxidant selection, as oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand reveals issues in current production methods, making ODHP a promising alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents challenges that require further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with declining selectivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures, hindering high conversion. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, particularly with oxidant selection, impacting its commercial potential. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity remains a significant obstacle.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and costly. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective method, using CO2 as an oxidant to reduce costs and emissions. However, employing oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the oxidant's critical role in process outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces supply issues due to high demand. Current production, via steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, is energy-intensive and suffers from catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and rely on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient and economical conversion. However, it faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but risks overoxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, offering an advantage over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production methods like steam cracking, FCC, and DH face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP using molecular oxygen offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production faces low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures promoting side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative that bypasses thermodynamic limitations but struggles with selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as it utilizes greenhouse gases, acts as a coke remover, and shifts the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 is marked by rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as reported by Zheng et al. (2005) and Zhang et al. (2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand and thermodynamic constraints leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental concerns. The success of ODHP hinges on catalyst performance and innovative process designs, aiming to match or exceed current technologies' yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, emit greenhouse gases, and produce diluting co-products. ODHP offers a more direct route with lower energy use and emissions. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen increases propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly separation. Nitrous oxide enhances selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, but it may lower activity, is more expensive, and has environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is pivotal, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity and conversion at high temperatures. However, SO2 boosts propane conversion while reducing propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by releasing heat and boosts propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these issues, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity as an alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as seen in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges with oxygen use, impacting safety and costs due to the need for oxygen separation and diluents to prevent runaway reactions. Precise dosing is critical to avoid over-oxidation and maintain propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap. ODHP, offering thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, addresses this gap. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, leading to unwanted carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and elevated temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred ODHP oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, limiting yields and requiring careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions. While oxygen enhances yields, increased conversion can lead to selectivity losses, impacting propene production.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC suffers from low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP offers higher yields but faces the issue of propylene oxidation, limiting yield to 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, using oxygen in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Selectivity control is more challenging due to propane's weaker bonds compared to ethane, impacting the process's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, addressing growing demand for propene. Its full potential, especially the role of oxygen as an oxidant, remains underexplored, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with balancing propane conversion and selectivity, as higher conversion rates lead to lower selectivity. Propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius exacerbates this issue. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity at higher temperatures and achieving commercial viability, as simultaneously achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity remains elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, costly, and contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective solution with potential environmental benefits, especially when using CO2 as an oxidant. However, oxygen can cause over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity, highlighting the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive and have low propylene selectivity. ODHP, using propane, offers a more economical and efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, could lower reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the oxidant's role and the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles with low yields, equilibrium constraints, and high-temperature side reactions. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offer alternatives. Direct PDH is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that decrease propylene yield and necessitate catalyst regeneration. ODHP, being exothermic, avoids thermodynamic limits but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and aiding in coke removal. CO2 shifts the equilibrium of PDH or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Cr and Ga-based oxide catalysts excel in CO2-assisted PDH. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant enhances safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion pose challenges in current production methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly addresses these by aligning with market needs and enhancing energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, as highlighted by Lange [3].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, albeit with higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion at high temperatures, enhancing selectivity per pass, but sacrifices propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. This highlights ODHP's potential and limitations, without addressing oxygen as an oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's limitations and high energy requirements hinder yields. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, offering a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, addresses these issues, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces challenges like overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to mitigate these issues due to their favorable properties. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally dependent on costly and unsustainable methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this limitation, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, addressing the need for sustainable and efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces oxidant selection challenges. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating precise control to prevent runaway reactions and adding to costs through oxygen separation from air.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap and spurring interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP, an exothermic process at lower temperatures, enhances catalyst stability compared to non-oxidative methods. Yet, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and rely on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation, producing unwanted carbon oxides and temperature control issues, requiring precise temperature management to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances selectivity for propene but risks over-oxidation and decreasing yields due to unselective combustion. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and selectivity losses, leading to yields lower than 30%. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC faces low yields and selectivity, worsened by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion. ODHP could enhance yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensuring safety is another hurdle. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP, highlighting the need for catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, addressing growing propene demand. Its CO2 utilisation produces hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, the critical role of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP remains underexplored, highlighting a gap in literature that affects its adoption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, faces similar challenges with selectivity and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, adds safety concerns, and propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking faces high energy consumption and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, resource depletion, and escalating costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't fully mitigate the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) potentially reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, as highlighted in quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face issues including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these challenges. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, which suffer from low yields and high-temperature side reactions. ODHP using oxygen is exothermic but faces selectivity issues. CO2, as a soft oxidant, shifts PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene, utilizing CO2 and aiding coke removal. Cr and Ga-based catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity in CO2-assisted PDH, yet rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers improvements by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and avoiding thermodynamic constraints. However, O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant resolves these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    