Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, particularly using SO2 as an oxidant, which enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, making it costly. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers a solution by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike oxygen, CO2 minimizes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant to the reaction feed, overcomes these limitations by initiating the reaction through the oxidant, not just high temperatures (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant leads to overoxidation of olefins to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway risks (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and improve ODH selectivity and conversion, though none have matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP struggles with selectivity to propylene when using oxygen as an oxidant, due to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on depleting petroleum. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It also risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, its use presents challenges like selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is constrained by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the requirement for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized process. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The need for catalysts that can efficiently activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety is a specific challenge. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to reduced co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, highlighting a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to traditional methods, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen as an oxidant decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous for its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but it has its own advantages and limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the reaction exothermic, but it risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation and spatial separation of active species. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is pivotal, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can avoid deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for a more selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and endothermic, unfavorable thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, beneficial for PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, enhancing propylene yield through a two-step pathway or direct oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, though rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction limits their effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP is safer, milder, and more readily available, mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. This highlights the need for innovative technologies that address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts product selectivity, catalyst stability, and overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, particularly using SO2 as an oxidant, which enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat from the reaction and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face challenges including high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly with oxidant selection, are significant. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, reducing selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen use can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen boosts selectivity but raises costs. Oxygen's presence can lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, necessitating advanced catalysts and reactor designs. Precise temperature control is vital to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen promotes propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges, including low propylene selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, with a maximum yield of about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Challenges include the need for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 C. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and saves energy compared to traditional methods. However, using O2 can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane are limited by high energy requirements and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints but risks overoxidation with oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like FCC and steam cracking, face challenges including high temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and potentially removing coke. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and Cr(VI) reduction remains an issue. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, shifting the equilibrium towards propylene production through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic freedom. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and effectively mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative, addressing the limitations of traditional methods while introducing its own set of considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing demand for propylene outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 and prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate reactions, potentially avoiding high temperatures and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation reactions, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and potential catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke formation. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP promotes selectivity for propene but also leads to over-oxidation, decreasing yields and risking explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, with increasing conversion, selectivity losses occur due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while the growing polypropylene market increases propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers more feasibility but needs a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, making selective processes like propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, promising. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 use attractive for chemical CO2 utilization, producing hydrogen and CO (syngas) by-products. However, literature lacks exploration of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP, a critical area for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges. Oxidant selection is critical, with oxygen posing safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's goal of high conversion and selectivity remains elusive, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to traditional methods, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative, using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, mitigating deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and enhancing propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, as seen in the ongoing search for a more selective catalyst in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. Direct dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is an attractive alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation. Catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also active in CO2PDH, with Cr and Ga-based materials showing the most promise.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy needs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy consumption, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and more available soft oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies are needed to address these issues, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene production with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. Oxygen's higher reactivity can lead to rapid catalyst deactivation, necessitating robust and selective catalysts. The oxidant selection is crucial, influencing the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP offers an alternative, particularly using SO2 as an oxidant, which boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures. While SO2 increases propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes these limitations by initiating reactions without solely relying on high temperatures (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant leads to overoxidation of olefins and potential reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion (Quotes 4 and 5). Despite progress, no catalytic system matches the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking. Propylene yields from ODHP have shown promise but remain below levels required for industrial implementation, indicating ongoing challenges in catalyst development and process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen's use also complicates the process due to separation costs and the need for precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially outperforming non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to hotspots, affecting temperature control. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are offset by these issues, necessitating the development of suitable catalysts and reactor designs to mitigate them.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the growing demand for propylene. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2, though more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's heat are key challenges. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially making propane dehydrogenation processes like ODHP more significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 use as an attractive chemical CO2 utilization strategy, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, as propylene oxidizes more readily than propane, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints but risks overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides when using oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and cracking, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, while avoiding overoxidation, doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, expensive precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and active species separation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents its own challenges, particularly in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation has low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation remains a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also effective with CO2, though rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction is a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Catalyst performance is crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene, with lower energy requirements. However, ODHP has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, particularly using SO2 as an oxidant, which enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion, but propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes some limitations but introduces issues like overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway risks. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to enhance selectivity and conversion, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complexity, and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, requiring diluents and precise control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing coke formation, which deactivates the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen is a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, but unselective combustion reactions limit alkene selectivities. Oxygen's use can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, extensive selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements in propylene yields but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large, centralized plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods highlight the potential of ODHP. This process offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own issues, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a lower reaction temperature due to its exothermic nature but risks overoxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of O2 can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for a more selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion rates due to thermodynamic limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. Its promoting effect may shift the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidize propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, can mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies are needed to address these issues, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route to propylene, with fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant selection is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using SO2 as an oxidant, offers an alternative by increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. While SO2 boosts propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, making it impractical. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers a solution by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production via propane dehydrogenation include side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complexity, and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on dwindling oil reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to overoxidation and undesired carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen boosts selectivity but increases costs. Oxygen's presence can cause hotspots and temperature control issues, necessitating precise temperature control and the development of suitable catalysts and reactor designs to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but also causes over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge lies in developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, highlighting a gap in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits and technical limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane. These methods are hindered by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but it has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, faces challenges including high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures, but it introduces the risk of propylene overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide, lowering selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also effective with CO2, though rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction can occur.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic freedom. Yet, oxygen's use in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, compromising selectivity. CO2, as a safer, milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation [1][2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, aligning better with market demand and offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process [8]. However, ODHP involves higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference and CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity for alkane conversion and selectivity to desired products, is crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct conversion to propylene and carbon dioxide, but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, particularly using SO2 as an oxidant, which enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more economic techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) alters the pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are investigated to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP struggles with low propylene yields and limited catalyst lifetime, as noted in a 2007 review by Cavani et al. Maintaining high selectivity to propylene under high propane conversion conditions is a key area for future development. The use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Recent studies suggest that using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity, requiring careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen's use also increases costs due to separation from air and necessitates precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages like exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like SC and FCC, struggle with low propylene selectivity and yields, as it's a by-product. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. ODHP offers potential improvements but is limited by propylene's consecutive oxidation, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical; F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 reactions, though more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge includes finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 C. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with selectivity decline and propane cracking. Oxidant choice is critical, with oxygen posing safety issues. The elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation highlights these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and saves energy compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen as an oxidant decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers an alternative using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene overoxidation to CO and CO2, impacting selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, favoring propylene production. Oxide catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also effective with CO2, though rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits their efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, aligning better with market demand. Its exothermal nature improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. Catalyst performance and process design are critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity at high temperatures and increases propane conversion, though propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not elaborate on challenges with oxygen as an oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to mitigate overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, motivating on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and prevents coke deposition, enhancing efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2. This highlights ODHP's potential and limitations in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on depleting petroleum. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. Oxygen, a cheap and abundant oxidant in ODHP, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and hotspots, complicating temperature control. Precise temperature management is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate catalysts. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen is a preferred oxidant, enhancing propene selectivity, but it also leads to over-oxidation and explosive risks. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's unselective reactions limit alkene selectivities, and extensive selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, face challenges due to low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Propane dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is limited by propylene's consecutive oxidation, achieving a maximum yield of about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are fast but non-selective; I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures; bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it has its own challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, control selectivity, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. Using CO2 in ODHP is attractive for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges not well-addressed in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents safety and process stability issues, impacting its commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and byproduct generation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane. These methods are hindered by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures but risks overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides when using oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, it struggles with controlling propylene overoxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to thermodynamic limitations and high temperatures, which foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, enhancing propylene yield, though rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, improves selectivity and safety in the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation issues [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can result in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene production with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP offers an alternative, using SO2 as an oxidant, which boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are not discussed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, addresses these issues, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant leads to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway risks. Catalysts, particularly supported vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to mitigate overoxidation, enhance selectivity, and maintain good conversion. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to undesired byproducts and temperature control issues, necessitating precise temperature management and catalyst development to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Oxygen's abundance and low cost are advantageous, but its use requires careful management to avoid these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but also causes over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's unselective combustion reactions lead to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but faces a 30% yield cap due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge lies in developing catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and side reactions, managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for alternatives to current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a chemical feedstock benefit. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially increasing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further cut costs, lower emissions, and save energy compared to traditional methods. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane. These methods are hindered by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though effective in hydrogen consumption, lacks compensatory heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges like high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces the challenge of controlling propylene's fate, as overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide can significantly lower selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, which cause side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant alternative, with PDH in its presence utilizing CO2 and offering a pathway to remove coke. However, catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction to Cr(III) limits its effectiveness. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these challenges, making ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in regions like Western Europe, and are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route to propylene, with fewer co-products. However, it has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant choice. Oxygen as an oxidant can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant selection is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, offering higher selectivity per pass at elevated temperatures compared to conventional methods. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues, offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's potential is limited by the selectivity issue when using oxygen as an oxidant, leading to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially improving catalyst performance and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires diluents and careful control to prevent runaway reactions, increasing process costs and necessitating precise oxygen dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages like favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and hotspots in the catalyst bed, complicating temperature control. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid combustion of desired products. The risk of coke formation can lead to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by declining propylene/ethylene ratios due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more feasible option, but resolving polyhalogenation selectivity requires a higher propane to bromine ratio, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene oxidizes more readily than propane, and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 C produces undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen selection in ODHP presents safety concerns, impacting its commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially reducing energy consumption and costs. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though effective in consuming hydrogen, doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including dehydrogenation, face challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures, but it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging solution, yet direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces challenges with low conversion and yields, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a concern due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. CO2's promoting effect shifts the equilibrium of PDH, favoring propylene production. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction. Despite these challenges, CO2PDH shows promise in addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene from propane, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant leads to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. Innovative catalysts and process designs are essential for ODHP's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and dilution of propylene yield by co-products. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production with lower energy requirements. However, ODHP's oxidant selection is critical: oxygen can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O), while improving propene selectivity and reducing deep oxidation, may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. Balancing these factors is key to optimizing ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a key advantage. However, SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. This highlights ODHP's potential and limitations in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing demand for propylene outpaces current production methods, necessitating more economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures by releasing the heat of reaction. CO2 increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly supported vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are investigated to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation, highlighting the oxidant's specific challenges.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, as highlighted in Quote 1. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising on-purpose propene technology, offering advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition, as per Quote 2. However, Quote 3 underscores the key challenge in ODHP: preventing the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant choice. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation to carbon oxides and hotspots in the catalyst bed, necessitating precise temperature control and advanced catalysts for successful ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine offers a more feasible alternative, but polyhalogenation selectivity requires a higher propane to bromine ratio, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, control selectivity, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially making dedicated processes like propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, more significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 use attractive for chemical CO2 utilization, producing hydrogen and CO as by-products. However, literature lacks exploration of oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs, lower emissions, save energy, and promote selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use leads to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding these constraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, catalyst costs, and deactivation. ODHP offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, as highlighted in quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and potentially mitigating coke formation. However, rapid catalyst deactivation remains an issue in CO2PDH.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, leading to poor selectivity. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, making the process safer and more efficient.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    