Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and dehydrogenation, faces challenges meeting demand, especially in Western Europe where ethylene is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit efficiency [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal alternatives [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, impacting economic and environmental considerations [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity and selectivity, is crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation but may have lower activity and higher costs, with environmental concerns due to its greenhouse gas properties. The oxidant choice is pivotal, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, increasing propane conversion. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed. The text does not discuss specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant, overcomes these by potentially reducing limitations. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) emerges as a more efficient and simpler alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP limits selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP is a more efficient alternative, but it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, though cheap and plentiful, risks overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, requiring precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are pivotal for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation and safety issues, limiting alkene yields. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and curbing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use necessitates strict control to avert selectivity losses and manage the exothermic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further impacted by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and limit natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. The process requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand highlights the need for dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP, which boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with the added benefit of CO2 utilisation and syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, impacting its viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, leading to selectivity decline. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting the commercialization potential of propane oxydehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, costs, and byproduct issues. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and dependency on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an alternative, using propane as a cost-effective feedstock with potentially higher conversion efficiency. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks the heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation reaction and may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Demand for propylene outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation affects propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising as it utilizes greenhouse gas, removes coke, and promotes the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, effective in non-oxidative PDH, also work with CO2, though rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction is a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Yet, oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly addresses these issues, enhancing process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces growing demand and thermodynamic constraints, leading to rapid catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative, but using oxygen increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are key to improving ODHP's competitiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, potentially more energy-efficient route. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves propene selectivity, reducing deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and increase costs. The oxidant choice is pivotal, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, offers enhanced selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's potential and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance ODHP activity and selectivity, but none match current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and generates by-products. ODHP is a more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over traditional methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability by preventing coke deposition. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, more thermodynamically stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use and low selectivity, with ODHP offering a more efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP's limitations include oxidant choice, particularly oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. H2S in the feed boosts propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, increasing conversion leads to selectivity losses, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam crackers further decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address these issues by offering higher propylene yields, yet is limited by propylene's consecutive oxidation, achieving only about 30% yield. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a common oxidant, can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation, managing the exothermic reaction's safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP presents a promising alternative for propylene production, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. The process generates hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products, showcasing its efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces challenges that are not well-documented, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, introduces safety and process issues, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions compared to steam cracking. However, oxygen use can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an alternative, using propane as a cost-effective feedstock with potentially higher conversion efficiency. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic but risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) potentially lowers reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, controlling propylene selectivity is challenging due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, as highlighted in quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand is rising, but current production methods like steam cracking, FCC, and DH face challenges: endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene outstrips production by conventional methods, spotlighting the need for alternatives. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is promising but faces low conversion and yield due to equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Soft oxidants, notably CO2, offer potential by utilizing greenhouse gases and aiding in coke removal. CO2 shifts the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, especially those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits, are mitigated by ODHP, which cuts energy needs, eliminates regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic barriers. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant solves these issues, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene and face thermodynamic and coking issues. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 production. Despite challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative with potential for innovation in catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases, with co-product dilution issues. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, with oxygen increasing yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propane conversion at high temperatures, though it leads to lower propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these by potentially reducing endothermic nature and coke formation issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though they haven't matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this limitation, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route by directly converting propane to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks. Precise oxygen control is crucial to prevent over-oxidation, increasing process costs and complexity.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas has widened the demand-supply gap for propylene, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers enhanced efficiency and catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and have low propylene selectivity, relying on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is more energy-efficient and has higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP's limitations include oxidant selection, with oxygen causing overoxidation, hotspots, coke formation, and catalyst deactivation, necessitating precise temperature control. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are vital for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields and necessitating controlled conditions to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, affecting yields due to propene re-oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further impacted by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising for higher propylene yields and lower costs, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative, but faces challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. Selectivity control is more challenging in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for dedicated processes like ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, with propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, introduces safety and process issues. Achieving high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions while promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, it struggles with controlling propylene overoxidation, risking conversion to carbon monoxide and dioxide, decreasing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing some of these issues. However, ODHP suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Selective catalysts are crucial for improving ODHP efficiency, balancing propylene yield with minimal byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles with low yields and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. ODHP is an exothermic process that avoids thermodynamic limitations but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. CO2 emerges as a soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation, but is characterized by rapid catalyst deactivation. Active research focuses on oxide catalysts, with Cr and Ga showing promise, but faces challenges like deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy needs, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant in ODHP addresses these issues, providing a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to a preference for ethylene and dehydrogenation limitations. ODHP offers a direct, energy-efficient route to propylene as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, posing environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution issues. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route, increasing propylene yields with oxygen as an oxidant but risks deep oxidation. Using N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures, though this leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these, but oxygen can cause overoxidation and instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, improve selectivity and conversion, though none match current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's limitations include selectivity problems when using oxygen, leading to over-oxidation of paraffins and olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP presents an energy-efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation and requires strict temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's benefits are offset by these challenges, necessitating advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. Its use can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields and requiring careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, but selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion due to propene re-adsorption and subsequent oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for higher propylene yields and lower costs, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address these issues by offering higher yields, yet remains capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Catalysts must activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene necessitates alternative production methods due to limitations in current processes. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, addressing environmental concerns by utilizing CO2. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking produces various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection in ODHP raises safety concerns. The goal of combining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation highlights ODHP's unrealized commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity without over-oxidation risks, whereas oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive and economically pressured, with low propylene selectivity. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and cracking. CO2, while safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including FCC and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, making it a preferred choice in ODHP processes. (Quote 2: High temperatures required for propane DH.) (Quote 5: High operating temperature and Pt catalyst costs are drawbacks.) (Quote 6: Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major bottleneck.) (Quote 7: Propylene selectivity is difficult to control in ODHP.) (Quote 8: CO2 as an oxidant can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion.)", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation's low yields and equilibrium constraints, exacerbated by high-temperature side reactions and coke formation, limit its efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limitations but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing greenhouse gas and mitigating coke through reverse water-gas shift or direct propane oxidation. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles with growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and faces thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation issues. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, highlighting the need for new technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct and cleaner route, enhancing energy efficiency. Using oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion but leading to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as an oxidant is promising, reducing operating temperatures and increasing conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially overcoming endothermic issues and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite advancements, current catalytic systems do not match industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene yield. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant choice. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation, hotspots, and coke formation, impacting catalyst performance. Effective catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibition of coke formation and promotion of selectivity for propene. However, oxygen limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway, while oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP boosts propylene yields but presents challenges like selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields and selectivity but faces the issue of propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields. Oxidant selection is pivotal; F2 and Cl2 are unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues, respectively. I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application. Bromine reactions are more viable but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, restricting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, whereas ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation, a challenge due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, highlighting the potential of ODHP as an alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, utilizing CO2 and producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific, under-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve these issues but struggles with selectivity decline as conversion increases, highlighting commercialization challenges, especially with oxygen as an oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high costs, energy demands, and environmental issues. ODHP presents a more efficient, selective, and potentially cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP amplifies its advantages, whereas oxygen risks over-oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is pivotal for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like dehydrogenation, which has thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic restraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive and have low propylene selectivity, leading to economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion. However, oxidant selection is critical; oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to increased coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke. ODHP, an exothermic process, could lower temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. CO2, as an oxidant, prevents deep oxidation, reduces coke, and boosts propane conversion, addressing ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH offers a soft oxidant for CO2 utilization and coke removal, shifting equilibrium towards propylene. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits CO2PDH's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. However, oxygen's use can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet demand, especially in Western Europe, due to ethylene preference and dehydrogenation limitations. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, oxygen use in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs are needed to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can enhance propene selectivity and mitigate deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental issues. The choice of oxidant in ODHP is critical, affecting the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity at high temperatures and boosts propane conversion, albeit with lower propylene selectivities than with pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, highlighting the need for efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements are addressed by ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. Additionally, CO2 increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, aims to address these. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, though their yields haven't matched current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, complex, and produce unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient and direct route to propylene, addressing these issues. However, it has limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions, increasing costs due to separation from air and requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition, over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can lead to overoxidation and undesired byproducts in ODHP, requiring precise temperature control and advanced catalysts to prevent catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's use also adds to energy costs due to air separation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, which reduces coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions, as it can lead to selectivity losses and propene yields below 30%. Despite these challenges, oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low propylene yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. The growing polypropylene market increases demand for alternative methods. Propane dehydrogenation is theoretically ideal but faces thermodynamic limitations, requiring high temperatures and complicating hydrogen and propane separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation, achieving a max yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are fast but non-selective; I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures; bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. Selectivity control is more challenging in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for efficient production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes. Using CO2 in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product generation. However, employing oxygen as an oxidant introduces specific challenges that are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher reactivity leading to declining selectivity. At high temperatures, propane cracking increases, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges, notably with oxidant selection, where oxygen poses safety issues. Commercialization of propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive due to these hurdles.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental concerns. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for optimal propylene yield in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion in endothermic processes, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive and have low propylene selectivity. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but less effective in providing heat, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces hurdles including high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, making it a promising alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation has low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation affects propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH utilizes CO2, removes coke, and can shift the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidize propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, particularly those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant, as suggested, is safer and more readily available, mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic limits and coking issues. ODHP directly converts propane to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Research focuses on enhancing catalysts and reactor designs to address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face high energy consumption and significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant choice significantly influences reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion but leading to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not discuss challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which can lead to over-oxidation and increased carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, aims to improve selectivity and conversion (Quote 2). However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched current industrial yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. To mitigate this, the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient route but using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks. Precise oxygen control is crucial to prevent over-oxidation, and oxygen separation adds to costs, highlighting the need for careful oxidant selection in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can lead to overoxidation, undesired byproducts, hotspots, and potentially combustion or coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Precise temperature control and catalyst development are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges such as coke formation. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields and selectivity, further complicated by the shift to ethane use and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve propylene yields but faces a cap at around 30% due to further oxidation of propylene. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their applicability in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make controlling selectivity in ODHP more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene strains current production methods, affecting co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene oxidizes more easily than propane, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, is critical yet poses safety concerns. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive, hindering its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy use, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking. Oxygen, however, leads to propane over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC is energy-intensive, has low selectivity, and depends on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, yet faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but endothermic, can increase coke deposition and compete for catalyst adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including DH and Oleflex, face challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP offers a potential solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with overoxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen, as highlighted in Quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, illustrating the trade-offs in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, faces low conversion and yield issues due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, mitigating coke formation, and shifting the reaction equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, particularly in chromium-based catalysts and with Ga2O3, remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges such as high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these problems, making it a preferred choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges due to thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion and coking issues. ODHP presents an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal alternatives. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs are needed to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, with oxygen increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity but may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity and conversion at high temperatures, though propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed. Oxygen's role in ODHP is not discussed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements, necessitating temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which can cause over-oxidation. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, addressing the limitations of DDP.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to overcome these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity (Quote 4). Despite progress, no catalytic system matches the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Diluents and careful control of reaction conditions are necessary to mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, driving interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive, has low selectivity, and relies on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP is more energy-efficient and selective, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen use risks overoxidation to carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen boosts selectivity at higher costs. Oxygen can cause hotspots, complicating temperature control, necessitating precise management to prevent catalyst deactivation by coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion and risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by a shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but faces a 30% cap due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still grapples with polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and large-scale plant requirements, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, control selectivity, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for efficient production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. Its CO2 utilisation as a by-product makes it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges, underscoring the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with selectivity and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, raises safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial viability. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously remains elusive, hindering ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and byproduct formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen's use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the oxidant choice's critical role in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations by operating at lower temperatures without thermodynamic restraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion and economic benefits. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures and catalyst costs, leading to deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, as highlighted in quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, ODHP has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that cause side reactions and require catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH utilizes CO2, removes coke, and shifts the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and limitations like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation in current production methods, highlight the need for alternatives. ODHP presents a direct route to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. This process balances advantages with environmental and economic considerations, addressing the challenges of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene with fewer co-products. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, improving selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are acknowledged but not elaborated upon.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacities, driving the need for innovative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by its high temperature requirement for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this issue by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 as an oxidant prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these by initiating the reaction differently. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds to the cost, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Its exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and prevention of coke deposition improve efficiency, yet avoiding facile over-oxidation of propene to more stable COx remains a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by offering a more efficient and selective process. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, requiring precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. Adding H2S improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, addressing selectivity losses at higher conversions.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially boost propylene yields, but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their application in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. The need for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, making propane dehydrogenation processes like ODHP attractive. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with the added benefit of chemical CO2 use. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique, under-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, is critical yet poses safety and process issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances benefits by promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but endothermic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can potentially lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation of propylene. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers advantages by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has a limitation of low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for these benefits but also presents the challenge of selectivity, addressing the issues of current methods while introducing its own set of advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium constraints. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative but faces low conversion and yield issues, exacerbated by high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, offering benefits in PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, shifting the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy consumption, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a safer oxidant enhances process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, challenges current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers an exothermic, energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a cleaner, more energy-efficient route. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation, prompting exploration of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, presenting an advantage. However, SO2's use in ODHP increases propane conversion at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating a trade-off in this method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, addressing issues like endothermic nature and coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive, complex, and produces by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct propylene route. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, which can cause deep oxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a supply-demand gap in propylene production, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, a key challenge is avoiding the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to undesired byproducts and catalyst performance degradation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation, and promoting selectivity for propene. However, oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions and poses risks of over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Controlled reaction conditions are necessary to prevent explosive mixtures. Adding H2S enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, limiting propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically attractive, is hindered by thermodynamic constraints requiring high temperatures, complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but faces a limitation in propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at about 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses challenges in propylene production by offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. Its use of CO2 as an oxidant is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilization. However, employing oxygen presents specific challenges that require further study, impacting the method's potential as a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking yields unwanted by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges. Oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety and process stability issues, complicating oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally impactful. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions and energy use. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity without over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is pivotal for ODHP's success, affecting yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and combustion. CO2, while safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but it introduces selectivity challenges due to overoxidation risks. CO2, as an alternative oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, making it a preferred choice over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but also results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation suffers from low yields and equilibrium constraints, necessitating high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke buildup. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen is exothermic and avoids thermodynamic limits, yet struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, emerges as a viable PDH alternative, utilizing CO2 and reducing coke via the reverse water-gas shift or direct propane oxidation. However, catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction challenges CO2PDH's viability.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. O2 use can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet demand, especially in Western Europe, due to a preference for ethylene and issues like thermodynamic constraints and coking. ODHP presents an exothermal, direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, directly converting propane. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP targets equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering higher selectivity per pass at high temperatures with SO2 as an oxidant, surpassing conventional methods. However, SO2, while enhancing propane conversion, results in lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring excessively high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming these limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient propane-to-propylene conversion. However, ODHP's oxidant selection is critical; using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and increasing safety and cost concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP boasts thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must tackle the issue of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and dependence on dwindling petroleum. ODHP is a more energy-efficient alternative, but using oxygen can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides and requires costly air separation. Oxygen's presence leads to temperature control issues, potentially reducing yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Despite its abundance, oxygen's use must be managed to prevent overoxidation and coke formation, necessitating advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, faces limitations due to unselective combustion reactions and over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for higher propylene yields and lower costs, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but faces the challenge of propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, thus limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy demands and large-scale requirements, limiting natural gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand necessitates alternative production methods to supplement traditional processes, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is promising for chemical CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges that are not well-documented in literature, highlighting a critical area for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve this by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, but faces its own challenges, including maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly using oxygen, introduces safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial viability. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously in propane oxydehydrogenation has proven elusive, hindering its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy costs, environmental issues, and byproduct generation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation, are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations by operating at lower temperatures without thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and dependency on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion process. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation, as highlighted in quote 2 and 5-6. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but struggles with propylene selectivity, as mentioned in quote 7. CO2, as noted in quote 8, is a preferred oxidant over oxygen as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic limitations. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using molecular oxygen offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. This highlights the trade-offs in oxidant selection for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation's low yields and conversion rates, due to thermodynamic constraints and high-temperature side reactions, are addressed by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process. However, ODHP struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting the equilibrium and directly oxidizing propane, while also managing coke formation. Yet, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    