Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are hindered by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly addresses these issues by offering a more energy-efficient, exothermal process compared to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, the use of oxygen in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and costs due to CO2 production, impacting economic attractiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, whereas ODHP offers a cleaner, potentially more efficient alternative. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation and requires costly oxygen separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental issues. Oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production by using SO2 as an oxidant, notably increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 addition enhances propane conversion, yet this comes at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the method's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges such as side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), employing an added oxidant, mitigates these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, improve selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation, but current systems do not match the efficiency of established industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable non-oxidative methods, faces challenges that oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address by offering higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. Recent studies propose the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, which can reduce selectivity to propylene due to deep oxidation reactions, leading to CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating controlled conditions and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, impacting costs and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, aims to bridge this gap, but must tackle the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking has high energy demands and low selectivity. ODHP is more efficient and selective, but using oxygen can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, requiring advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and enhancing propene selectivity. However, oxygen limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides. H2S in the feed boosts propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use increases propylene yields but introduces risks of explosive mixtures and selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking struggles with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can boost propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency of expensive I2. Bromine is more feasible but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, where oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are vital for propane activation under mild conditions while minimizing over-oxidation and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which ODHP addresses by enhancing propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is promising for chemical CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product production. However, employing oxygen as an oxidant presents specific, less documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, adds safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC is energy-intensive, lacks selectivity, and relies on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and efficient conversion but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may increase coke formation and affect catalyst performance due to its lack of heat.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation of Pt-Sn species. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges like endothermic reactions and coke formation. ODHP with molecular oxygen mitigates these by enabling lower temperatures and reducing coke, but it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, which are limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is hindered by low conversion rates, high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, and equilibrium limitations. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic, non-equilibrium-limited alternative, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising PDH alternative, utilizing CO2 to mitigate coke formation and shift the PDH equilibrium, enhancing propylene production. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy demand, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints are addressed by ODHP, which reduces energy use and eliminates catalyst regeneration. However, oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant solves these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC struggles with growing demand and faces thermodynamic and catalyst deactivation issues. ODHP presents a direct, exothermal route to propylene, enhancing energy efficiency. However, oxygen use in ODHP increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 production. New technologies must focus on catalyst performance and innovative process designs to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. Nitrous oxide, though potentially more costly and environmentally impactful, improves selectivity and reduces deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP overcomes by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass. However, SO2 addition boosts propane conversion at the cost of propylene selectivity, highlighting a trade-off in ODHP's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which causes over-oxidation. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by utilizing an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues, potentially overcoming the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity, though they have yet to match the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, vital for numerous chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, which can over-oxidize paraffins and olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient propane-to-propylene conversion, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity and raising safety concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating controlled conditions and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, which increases costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, highlighting ODHP's potential. ODHP benefits from favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but faces the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and rely on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, poses risks of overoxidation and temperature control issues, crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed boosts propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, it leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by a shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers a more feasible but still limited option due to polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP boosts propane conversion and propene yield over non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing production challenges. However, oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP remain underexplored, indicating a limitation in the method's development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while promising, faces similar challenges, especially in oxidant selection, where oxygen's safety concerns hinder its commercial potential, as achieving high conversion and selectivity remains elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and costs. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use presents over-oxidation risks, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a key limitation. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the process exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges due to high operating temperatures and catalyst costs, leading to catalyst deactivation from coke formation [2,5,6]. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) addresses these issues by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature [7]. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion [8], effectively addressing key limitations of current methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, a key limitation requiring a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is constrained by low yields and high temperatures, fostering side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not equilibrium-limited, yet selectivity is a hurdle due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH presents an alternative, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation through the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Active oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, but rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction challenges their utility.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy demand, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, making it a preferable choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges like growing demand, thermodynamic constraints, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns. ODHP's potential lies in its process simplicity and energy efficiency, making it a promising alternative despite oxidant-related challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, emits greenhouse gases, and produces diluting co-products. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy consumption. Oxygen increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide enhances propene selectivity, mitigating deep oxidation, albeit with potential activity reduction, higher costs, and environmental issues. The oxidant choice influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP tackles propylene production's equilibrium limitations by enhancing propane conversion and selectivity with SO2 as an oxidant, though propylene yields are lower than with pure propane. The text doesn't explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips current production, prompting exploration of alternative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, while minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, reduces reliance on high temperatures and addresses these issues (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally dependent on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more direct, efficient route but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety issues due to its reactivity. Its use requires diluents, controlled conditions, and precise dosing, increasing costs and complexity.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap and spurring interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, holds promise over non-oxidative methods. Yet, it must tackle the over-oxidation challenge to prevent propene's conversion to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient process with higher propylene yield. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap, risks overoxidation and temperature control issues, affecting catalyst stability. Successful ODHP requires optimal catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and boosting propylene yields. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by ethane preference, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation offers high selectivity and lower costs but requires high temperatures, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields, yet it's capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is overly reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and risky, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine is more feasible but needs a higher propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have limitations, including energy intensity and large plant requirements, which ODHP addresses by offering a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. Developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating are key to ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods highlight ODHP's potential, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield while addressing environmental concerns through CO2 utilization. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to decline. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, especially oxygen use, introduces safety concerns, highlighting the difficulty in combining high propane conversion and high propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and costly, with environmental concerns. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions and energy use, especially when CO2 is used as an oxidant. However, using oxygen can cause over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on oil. ODHP offers a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer from overoxidation, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, leading to additional coke and competitive adsorption on catalysts, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. ODHP can lower temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant allows for these benefits but also presents the challenge of maintaining propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds traditional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation's low yields and equilibrium constraints, necessitating high temperatures that foster side reactions and frequent catalyst regeneration, are overcome by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process. However, ODHP struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances propylene production by shifting the reaction equilibrium and acting as a coke remover, but rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge in PDH with CO2.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant enhances process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, outpacing ethylene, reveals issues with steam cracking and FCC. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking limit efficiency. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, presenting an efficiency-environment trade-off.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene, potentially reducing environmental impacts. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation risks, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to address. A key advantage is the enhanced selectivity per pass at high temperatures when using SO2 as an oxidant. However, while SO2 boosts propane conversion, it leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips current production, necessitating alternatives to DDP, which is thermodynamically constrained and energy-intensive. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, overcomes these issues by lowering operating temperatures and boosting propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, while minimizing carbon oxide production by preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, mitigates these by potentially avoiding endothermic issues and coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, poses risks of overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, aid in suppressing complete oxidation and enhancing ODH activity and selectivity, though current yields are inferior to those of established industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally dependent on costly and unsustainable methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate over-oxidation, turn the process exothermic, and potentially reduce catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a potential oxidant, can reduce propylene selectivity due to deep oxidation, requiring controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions and precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation, with increased costs from air separation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene widens the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its exothermic nature and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an alternative to non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil. ODHP is more energy-efficient and selective but struggles with oxidant choice, notably oxygen, which risks overoxidation and requires precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, increases propene selectivity but can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, worsened by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and scales poorly, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand and issues with traditional steam cracking highlight the need for alternatives. ODHP is promising due to higher propane conversion and propene yield, and CO2 utilization benefits chemical CO2 use, producing syngas. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents significant, less-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, which decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP, while promising, faces similar challenges, notably propylene's reactivity, and oxygen selection introduces safety concerns, hindering its commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are costly and energy-intensive with reduced yields. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective solution, enhancing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without the over-oxidation risks associated with oxygen, which can decrease propylene selectivity by converting propane to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to growing demand for its derivatives. Current production methods, including steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic constraints, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers propane as a cost-effective feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it encounters limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an alternative, reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, mitigating ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. (Ref: [1], [2])", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is constrained by low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limitations, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) serves as a soft oxidant, enhancing PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect involves hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely enhances process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and limitations due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation in current methods like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for alternatives [1,2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide enhances propene selectivity, reducing deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering enhanced selectivity at high temperatures using SO2 as an oxidant, which is advantageous over conventional methods. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient techniques. DDP is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields [2]. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction [3]. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production [5].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by using an oxidant to lower reaction temperatures. However, oxygen can lead to overoxidation to CO and CO2, complicating reaction control. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, improve selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation. Despite progress, no system has yet achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions. Despite promising yields reported, the selectivity to propylene under high propane conversion remains a challenge for industrial implementation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive. ODHP is a more efficient alternative but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Its reactivity increases safety risks and costs due to separation and precise dosing requirements.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap, spurring interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP, with its favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, outshines non-oxidative methods but must tackle the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on depleting petroleum. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap, risks overoxidation and temperature control issues, affecting catalyst activity. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures and minimizes coke, using oxygen to boost propene selectivity. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields, and requires careful control to avoid explosive mixtures. Adding H2S to the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and inhibiting over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. ODHP could boost yields but faces challenges with consecutive propylene oxidation, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine, while more feasible, requires optimization to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a decentralized, potentially more efficient process, but faces oxidant selection challenges, notably with oxygen causing side reactions that impact propylene yield. Effective catalysts are vital for activating propane under mild conditions, managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating, and ensuring safety by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand underscores the need for efficient production methods, making ODHP a viable alternative due to its higher propane conversion and propene yield, plus CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique, under-documented challenges, affecting the process's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's reactivity decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces similar challenges, notably safety concerns from oxidant selection, impacting its commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, encounter high energy costs, environmental concerns, and reduced yields. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, offering an advantage over traditional methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity, as highlighted by the presence of O2 causing overoxidation to carbon oxides (COx).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's limitations, especially in oxidant selection, are significant. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the reaction exothermic but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures, thanks to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing some of ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limitations, but over-oxidation remains a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, aiding coke removal, and shifting the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits, are mitigated by ODHP, which reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic barriers. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but CO2, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, offering a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand and limitations in dehydrogenation methods. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs are essential to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. The oxidant choice is crucial, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity at high temperatures, enhancing propane conversion but reducing propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, prompting the need for alternative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high temperature requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures and boosting propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy needs, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these issues but risks overoxidation and reaction runaway when using oxygen. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion, though none have yet matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, which can over-oxidize paraffins and olefins to carbon oxides. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in a review by Cavani et al. and recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, but oxidant selection, especially oxygen, poses challenges. Oxygen's effectiveness is offset by risks of deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and safety concerns due to its reactivity, requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation and increasing costs from air separation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap. ODHP, an on-purpose propylene technology, offers exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must tackle the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges are addressed by ODHP, offering efficiency and selectivity. Oxygen, as an oxidant, is cost-effective and abundant but risks overoxidation, necessitating strict temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke buildup. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields to below 30%. Careful control is vital to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosions. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, worsened by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but struggles with propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting efficiency to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, necessitates a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but it faces challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, reducing propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial to prevent overheating, and the weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand pushes for alternatives to current production methods, with ODHP emerging as a viable option. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes. Utilizing CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP not only aids in chemical CO2 utilisation but also generates syngas by-products. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces uncharted challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve this but faces selectivity decline with increased conversion. Oxygen's use in ODHP raises safety concerns, hindering commercialization, as highlighted by the difficulty in combining high propane conversion with propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and byproduct formation. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective process, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances efficiency and selectivity compared to oxygen, which risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, is a more economical and efficient alternative. However, it encounters limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can boost catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but struggles with controlling propylene overoxidation, affecting selectivity. CO2, as an oxidant, prevents deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, making it preferable over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production by conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low conversion and yield due to thermodynamics. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH offers benefits by utilizing CO2, reducing coke formation, and promoting PDH through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. However, catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction hinders its efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces hurdles including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but using CO2 as a soft oxidant provides a safer, more accessible alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe where ethylene production is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit alkane conversion [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, directly producing propylene with improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity for alkane conversion and selectivity to desired products, is critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and greenhouse emissions. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation, while N2O enhances selectivity but may reduce activity and increase costs. Oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses propylene production's equilibrium limitations by significantly boosting propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures, especially when using SO2 as an oxidant. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed, illustrating a trade-off in the method's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature needs for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and minimizes carbon oxide production, addressing the limitations of DDP while offering a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these limitations. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, mitigate these issues by suppressing complete oxidation and enhancing selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system matches the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) emerges as a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest that using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, thus addressing the need for high selectivity and conversion in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use and low selectivity, which ODHP improves by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control, risking reduced propylene yield and catalyst issues. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are vital to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from coke formation. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway, yet selectivity drops with higher conversion, limiting yields to under 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference as a feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, necessitates high temperatures, complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal; F2 and Cl2 are unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues, while I2's slow reaction and high temperature requirement limit its industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, restricting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction safely is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, affecting co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents challenges, underlining the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, particularly in combining high conversion and selectivity. Oxidant selection, especially oxygen, adds safety concerns, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and has reduced yields. ODHP presents as a more efficient and cost-effective alternative, especially when CO2 is used as an oxidant, reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods, including steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite advancements with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, oxygen's role remains a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks, leading to the combustion of propane and propylene to carbon monoxide and/or dioxide. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion by participating in the reverse water-gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also presents the limitation of low selectivity, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Direct dehydrogenation requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions and frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is promising for utilizing CO2, removing coke, and shifting the equilibrium favorably. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits its effectiveness. Catalysts containing Cr or Ga are the most active and selective in PDH with CO2, but Ga2O3 shows drastic deactivation due to coke formation, and Cr reduction contributes to deactivation of chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations, are mitigated by ODHP, which reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but using CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, more practical alternative, addressing these issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand, notably in Western Europe, exceeds current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its efficiency. ODHP, an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation, making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a viable route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct, and energy-efficient route. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity, mitigates deep oxidation, though it may lower activity, is more expensive, and raises environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant to enhance selectivity at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. DDP's high energy requirements and endothermic nature limit its efficacy. ODHP, employing CO2 as a mild oxidant, lowers operating temperatures, enhances propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and limits carbon oxide production by preventing over-oxidation, addressing the challenges of current propylene production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges such as side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, is proposed to mitigate these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are investigated to improve selectivity and conversion while curbing complete oxidation, though none have yet matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by over-oxidation when using oxygen, hindering industrial adoption. Recent research suggests using CO2 as a mild oxidant could enhance selectivity, making the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, highlighting ODHP's promise as an evolving alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP is a more efficient alternative but faces challenges with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, which can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks. Precise oxygen dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation, and its separation from air adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's impact on propylene production creates a demand-supply gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides and hotspots, complicating temperature control. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are offset by these challenges, necessitating precise temperature control and catalyst development to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP offers a lower-temperature alternative, reducing coke and energy needs. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. Over-oxidation to carbon oxides decreases propene yields, requiring controlled conditions to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can boost propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, as propene re-adsorbs and oxidizes, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking suffers from low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but faces the challenge of propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 lacks selectivity, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, needs a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and unsuitable for remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative, but faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction for safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, leading to compromises. ODHP, especially with CO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion and propene yield, offering a promising CO2 utilisation method with syngas by-products. However, using oxygen introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity at higher conversion rates and managing propane cracking. Oxygen's use as an oxidant raises safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial potential, as high propane conversion and propylene selectivity remain elusive goals.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, improving selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of O2 remains a significant limitation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, low selectivity, and escalating costs. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. Oxidant selection is pivotal; oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, potentially leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene's fate, risking overoxidation to CO and CO2, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, facing low yields and high temperatures that cause side reactions and necessitate frequent catalyst regeneration, struggles to meet demand. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process not bound by thermodynamic limits, presents an alternative but suffers from selectivity issues. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers potential in PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, yet rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and sidesteps thermodynamic constraints. However, O2 in ODHP poses flammability and over-oxidation risks, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues, offering a milder and readily available alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production, especially in Western Europe, as steam cracking favors ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit propylene output. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process, enhances energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen boosts energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, presenting a trade-off in environmental impact and economic viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, but may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxygen's high reactivity can cause rapid catalyst deactivation, necessitating robust and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation, which ODHP addresses by boosting propane conversion using SO2 as an oxidant, though this trade-off reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, mitigates these by reducing endothermicity and coke formation. Oxygen, however, risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, ODHP's yields haven't matched those of established industrial olefin production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP is a more energy-efficient method, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, affecting propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety concerns, requiring diluents and controlled conditions, and air separation for oxygen adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas impacts propylene production, creating a supply-demand gap. ODHP emerges as an alternative, offering thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability. Yet, it must tackle the challenge of propene over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity, but using oxygen can cause overoxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but can limit alkene selectivities and over-oxidize propene, decreasing yields. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosions and leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production through SC and FCC yields low propylene as a by-product. Propane dehydrogenation, while promising, requires high temperatures, complicating propylene separation. ODHP can enhance propylene yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and large-scale, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection; using oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand highlights the need for dedicated processes like ODHP, which boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP's advantages include CO2 utilisation and by-product production. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique, less-documented challenges, impacting its feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with declining selectivity and propane cracking at high temperatures, leading to by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but encounters similar issues, notably propylene's higher reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant poses safety concerns, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers efficiency but is limited by oxidant choice. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but endothermic, may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, lowering propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods, leading to exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its effect either shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) in chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a low-energy alternative, eliminating catalyst regeneration and thermodynamic issues. However, oxygen use can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant addresses these problems, making ODHP a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including thermodynamic constraints and rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking [2], with propylene demand outpacing ethylene in key markets [1]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly addresses these issues by improving energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [7], but its use of oxygen can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, posing significant challenges. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and is more costly. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production, boosting propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures, especially when using SO2 as an oxidant. However, propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. This highlights the trade-offs in oxidant selection for ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high temperature requirements limit its effectiveness. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 and curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming these limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, necessitating the use of catalysts to suppress complete oxidation and maintain selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, facing high costs and sustainability issues due to reliance on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, could benefit from oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). ODHP offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation when using oxygen. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of ODHP while offering a sustainable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by traditional methods is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to reduced propylene selectivity and safety risks due to its reactivity, requiring careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene widens the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP, compared to non-oxidative methods, boasts favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity, whereas ODHP boosts efficiency and yields. Oxygen, while abundant and cost-effective, risks overoxidation and requires precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation, highlighting the oxidant's critical role in ODHP's implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's ability to inhibit coke formation. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. The presence of oxygen can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, reducing yields. Careful control is necessary to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. Oxygen's effectiveness in boosting propylene yields is balanced by the risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation. However, selectivity decreases with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at about 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to I2 recycling inefficiency; bromine reactions are more feasible but necessitate a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, restricting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, unlike ODHP, which is more energy-efficient and decentralized. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent overheating for safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, affecting co-product yields. ODHP promises higher propane conversion and propene yield, potentially meeting demand. Using CO2 in ODHP is advantageous for CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product generation. However, employing oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a research need.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, aiming to address these, faces similar challenges, notably propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant raises safety concerns. Achieving high conversion and selectivity remains a challenge, impacting ODHP's commercial potential, as highlighted by the elusive goal of combining high propane conversion with high propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally impactful. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant offering cost and emission reductions. However, using O2 risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high demand and supply deficits. Current methods, including steam cracking and dehydrogenation, have limitations: high energy requirements due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity, as highlighted by the presence of O2 causing overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides (COx).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy demands, low selectivity, and increasing costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a lower reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers advantages with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, but it has a drawback of low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP reduces coke but also causes low propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium constraints, while oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium-limited but struggles with over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers a promising route for utilizing greenhouse gas, coke removal, and equilibrium shift benefits. However, catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction presents ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and avoiding thermodynamic limits. However, oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces production due to dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. ODHP directly addresses this by offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, but using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges. This highlights the need for new technologies like ODHP, which can potentially produce propylene with yields comparable to current methods, while offering process simplicity and energy efficiency as incentives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy needs and fewer co-products. However, it faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves propene selectivity, reducing deep oxidation risk, but has lower activity, higher costs, and environmental concerns due to its greenhouse gas properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, offering an advantage. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's limitations and high-temperature needs are mitigated by ODHP, which uses CO2 as a mild oxidant to alter the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing temperatures and enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these by reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts are explored to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion, though current yields are below industrial standards.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas widens the propylene demand-supply gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, offers advantages over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the key challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and lack selectivity. ODHP offers improved efficiency and selectivity but faces limitations, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, risking catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, highlighting the careful control needed for the exothermic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and a declining propylene/ethylene ratio, exacerbated by ethane preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas by-products. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, which decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to undesired by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, poses safety concerns and process issues, hindering ODHP's commercial potential, as achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously has proved elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective process with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant further cuts costs and emissions while promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply shortage due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids these thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, low selectivity, resource depletion, and cost increases. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but insufficient for heat provision, leading to competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces and affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via traditional methods faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers advantages by enabling lower reaction temperatures and inhibiting coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has a limitation of low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation (Heinritz-Adrian et al., 2008; Olah and Molnar, 2003). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic alternative, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation (Xu et al., 2006). Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, enhancing propylene production in a two-step pathway and utilizing CO2 as a greenhouse gas (Zangeneh et al., 2011). However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction limits its effectiveness, as seen in the drastic deactivation of Ga2O3 and chromium-based catalysts (Zheng et al., 2005; Zhang et al., 2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "ODHP tackles high energy costs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits in propylene production, offering lower energy use and avoiding these constraints. O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    