Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues with current methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation, underscore the need for innovative technologies. ODHP presents a direct route to produce propylene, aligning with market needs due to its exothermal nature, which enhances energy efficiency over endothermal processes. However, oxygen use in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, mainly due to CO2 production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, notably steam cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP presents a more direct and efficient route to propylene with fewer byproducts. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and necessitates energy-demanding oxygen separation, underscoring the importance of oxidant selection in balancing yield, selectivity, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures. However, SO2 addition, while boosting propane conversion, reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, demonstrating the method's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high-temperature requirement for significant yields is a limitation. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production. This offers an advantage over molecular oxygen in oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with an oxidant aims to address these, notably the endothermic nature and coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, poses risks of overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety and cost issues due to its reactivity and the need for air separation. Precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene widens the propylene supply-demand gap, necessitating on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and reduced coke deposition, enhances catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking has limitations, including high energy use and dependency on diminishing oil resources. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to carbon oxides, and necessitates energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen complicates temperature control and can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, affecting yields. H2S in the feedstock boosts propene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production through SC and FCC suffers from low yields as by-products, with ethane preference in steam crackers further decreasing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP offers higher yields but faces issues with consecutive oxidation of propylene, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection, as oxygen can cause side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. The unique bond structure of propane complicates selectivity control in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene strains current production methods, underscoring the significance of selective processes like ODHP. This method boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative alternatives. However, ODHP's reliance on oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and avoiding propane cracking. Oxygen use in ODHP adds safety concerns, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by traditional methods faces challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient and selective process, notably when CO2 is used as an oxidant, which can lower costs and greenhouse gas emissions. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers efficient conversion and economic advantages. However, it faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation and reducing coke formation, as highlighted in quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via traditional methods faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers a solution with lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has a limitation of low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is hindered by low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic but faces selectivity issues. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a promising soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke. Its effect can shift PDH equilibrium or directly oxidize propane. However, PDH with CO2 encounters catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely addresses these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges in meeting demand, especially due to ethylene preference and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints. ODHP presents as a direct, exothermal route to propylene, enhancing energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, highlighting the need for a balance between environmental and economic factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, necessitating temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, as evidenced by its ability to alter the dehydrogenation pathway and increase equilibrium conversion of propane.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, employing an oxidant, aims to tackle these challenges by initiating the reaction with the oxidant instead of high temperatures. However, using oxygen in ODHP risks overoxidation of propylene to CO and CO2, and may lead to reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, have been studied to suppress complete oxidation, enhance selectivity, and maintain good conversion. Despite their promise, these catalysts haven't yet achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand highlights the need for sustainable production alternatives to costly, petroleum-based methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant limits selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could address this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance, as evidenced in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks, requiring careful control of reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap and driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP, exothermic and preventing coke deposition, outperforms non-oxidative methods but must tackle over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, low selectivity, and oil dependency. ODHP offers an energy-efficient, selective process but struggles with oxidant selection, risking overoxidation and temperature control issues. Success hinges on optimal catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and reducing yields. Careful control is essential to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed boosts propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and declining propylene/ethylene ratios due to ethane's preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 is more feasible but needs a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions, managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for alternatives to conventional production methods, which can compromise co-product yields. ODHP presents higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes, making it a promising alternative. Its CO2 utilization is a significant advantage, but using oxygen as an oxidant introduces specific challenges that require further exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, which decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking leads to undesired by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, with oxygen's use as an oxidant introducing safety concerns, impacting commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and costly. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and greenhouse gas emissions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current production methods, like dehydrogenation, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these issues at lower temperatures, offering an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion but has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks overoxidation and affects olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but lacks the heat for dehydrogenation, potentially leading to additional coke deposition and impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen (Quotes 2, 5, 6, 7, 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via traditional methods faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, addresses these by offering lower temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation's low yields, due to equilibrium constraints and high-temperature side reactions, are addressed by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen, an exothermic process. However, over-oxidation is a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "ODHP tackles propylene production's high energy costs, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints, offering lower energy use and avoiding these limitations. However, O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP is safer, milder, and more available, effectively addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges due to thermodynamic constraints and coking, limiting efficiency [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative to endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially lower-energy route to propylene with fewer byproducts. Oxygen boosts propylene yields in ODHP but risks deep oxidation and requires costly separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity at high temperatures, an advantage over traditional methods. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to using pure propane. This highlights the trade-offs in oxidant selection for ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production, necessitating efficient techniques. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements highlight its challenges. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, making ODHP a viable DDP alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and coke-induced catalyst deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by incorporating an oxidant, aims to mitigate energy requirements and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, complicating reaction control (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, leveraging their thermal stability, surface area, and reducibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant, potentially making the process exothermic and beneficial for catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of using oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP is a more efficient alternative, but using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, reducing propylene yield and posing safety concerns. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent deep oxidation, illustrating ODHP's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas's low-cost ethene. ODHP offers an alternative, leveraging thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers higher efficiency and yield. Oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation, complicating yield and necessitating separation. It also complicates temperature control and may deactivate catalysts. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are key to mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene and decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction, as oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and propane separation. ODHP offers higher propylene yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2, though more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic reaction is critical for safety, and controlling selectivity is challenging due to propane's chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP boosts propane conversion and propene yield, addressing environmental concerns better than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, which reduces selectivity as conversion increases. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection in ODHP introduces safety concerns and process challenges, impacting its commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is costly, energy-intensive, and environmentally problematic. ODHP presents a more efficient, selective process that could lower costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts its benefits by conserving energy and preventing over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, have limitations: thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, which avoids thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP, using propane, offers more efficient conversion and economic advantages. However, it encounters limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures for acceptable yields and costly catalysts, with catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation of active species. ODHP can potentially lower reaction temperatures but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, offering a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative that utilizes greenhouse gas and removes coke, promoting PDH by consuming hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or directly oxidizing propane. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses propylene production's energy-intensive, catalyst-dependent, and thermodynamically limited methods by offering lower energy consumption and eliminating catalyst regeneration and thermodynamic constraints. However, O2 in ODHP poses flammability and over-oxidation risks, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely resolves these issues, being safer, milder, and readily available.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and faces thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation issues. ODHP, as an exothermal process, offers improved energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, as highlighted by Lange. New technologies like ODHP are needed to overcome limitations in current methods, presenting a promising alternative despite remaining challenges in catalyst performance and process design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and yield dilution by co-products. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, reducing energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields through direct propane conversion but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is crucial, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity at high temperatures, a key advantage. However, this comes with trade-offs, as SO2 addition increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates efficient production methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via non-oxidative processing of petroleum is costly and unsustainable. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in a review by Cavani et al. and supported by recent research by Carrero et al. and Ovsitser et al.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP is a more efficient alternative but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates precise control to prevent over-oxidation and increased costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. This method offers exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and prevents coke deposition, addressing some challenges. However, it must overcome over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for precise temperature control.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face issues such as high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreasing propene yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by a shift to ethane, reducing propylene/ethylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is overly reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital for propane activation under mild conditions, controlling selectivity, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand necessitates improved production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes. This aligns with CO2 utilization strategies, but using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve this but faces similar challenges, notably declining selectivity and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, especially oxygen use, adds safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking encounters high energy costs and environmental issues, with reduced yields. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, improving selectivity. Utilizing CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, favoring selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, poses a risk of over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by high energy requirements and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP presents an economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is critical. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, but it doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, offering advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges like endothermic reactions and coke formation. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and thermodynamic limitations, requiring high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke formation (Olah and Molnar, 2003). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation (Xu et al., 2006). Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH utilizes greenhouse gas CO2 and may reduce coke formation (Zangeneh et al., 2011). CO2 promotes the reaction by consuming hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction (Zhang et al., 2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges due to growing demand and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion, exacerbated by coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial success, as they determine economic attractiveness and process simplicity. The lower cost of feedstock in ODHP isn't a significant incentive, but improved energy efficiency and process simplicity are effective incentives. Research efforts aim to develop catalysts for alkane oxidation to olefins with yields comparable to current technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, struggle with high energy use, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a cleaner, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly oxygen separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, yet it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts selectivity and conversion rates at high temperatures, addressing these issues. However, SO2 addition enhances propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity, indicating a trade-off in efficiency and yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic constraints require high temperatures for yield, as per quote 2. ODHP with CO2 as a mild oxidant, as in quote 3, lowers operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, unlike oxygen which causes over-oxidation, as quote 5 highlights. CO2 enhances propane conversion by consuming H2 and minimizes carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, oxygen use in ODHP risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are being investigated to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand highlights the need for sustainable production alternatives to current costly, non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, but using oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could address this limitation, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, thus enhancing the viability of ODHP as a propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-demanding and yields by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative but faces challenges, notably in choosing the right oxidant. Oxygen use in ODHP risks deep oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity and posing safety issues due to its reactivity, as precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP, offering thermodynamic advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, is promising. However, it must overcome the key challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and causes temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation through coke formation. Successful ODHP requires precise temperature control and suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via cracking and dehydrogenation, faces high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures and reduces coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields below 30%. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC yields are low as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam cracking decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand necessitates on-purpose propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion and complicating propylene separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 reactions need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, whereas ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. Finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating are key. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique challenges, highlighting ODHP's limitations despite its appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, which decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to unwanted by-products. ODHP, while promising, faces challenges in oxidant selection, particularly with oxygen, impacting safety and process efficiency. Commercializing propane oxydehydrogenation remains challenging due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are costly, environmentally problematic, and yield-restricted. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially utilizing CO2 as an oxidant to save energy and reduce emissions. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures, making it free from the thermodynamic restraint. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is critical. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2 enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, though it doesn't fully address the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP could mitigate these by potentially lowering temperatures, but it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, highlighting the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium issues, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a promising soft oxidant for PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 encounters catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, offering a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints, are mitigated by ODHP, which reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant addresses these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges, with growing demand outpacing supply in Western Europe [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, offers improved energy efficiency over endothermic methods [8], making it a viable alternative. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, emit greenhouse gases, and produce diluting co-products. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route, with oxygen enhancing propylene yields but risking deep oxidation and necessitating energy-intensive separation. N2O as an oxidant in ODHP improves selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a significant advantage. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating new methods. DDP is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for yield. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces temperatures and boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, unlike oxygen, which minimizes carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these by reducing endothermicity and coke buildup. However, oxygen can lead to overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to maintain selectivity and conversion, though they currently fall short of matching industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, a cornerstone for various chemicals, faces challenges due to costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, aiming to address these issues. However, ODHP struggles with selectivity to propylene due to over-oxidation when using oxygen. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions. This approach could lead to higher propylene yields and improved selectivity, making ODHP a more viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route to propylene but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Precise dosing and controlled conditions are crucial to prevent over-oxidation, and oxygen separation from air adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in propylene production widens the supply-demand gap, prompting ODHP exploration. ODHP, with its thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, could surpass non-oxidative methods. However, preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2 is a critical challenge.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and necessitates energy-demanding oxygen separation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and enhancing propene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant limits alkene selectivities and can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high yields but presents risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which further reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising for high propylene selectivity and lower costs, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering the use of remote gas reserves. ODHP presents a decentralized alternative with potential efficiency gains. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection; oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions and manage exothermic reactions safely is crucial. Propane's weaker bonds complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand underscores issues in current production methods, making ODHP a significant alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, making it an appealing process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces uncharted challenges, impacting its viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with efficient propane conversion to propylene due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP presents potential improvements but faces similar challenges, especially with oxidant selection, which adds safety concerns when using oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are costly, energy-intensive, and produce unwanted byproducts. ODHP presents as a more efficient, selective, and potentially eco-friendly alternative. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances energy savings and selectivity. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, reducing propylene yield. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene production in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical, faces production challenges due to supply deficits and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic constraints, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient use of reactants and low process selectivity, as highlighted by the presence of O2 causing overoxidation to carbon oxides (COx).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, lack selectivity, and rely on dwindling petroleum. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and efficient conversion but faces oxidant selection challenges. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures and costly catalysts, leading to catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is constrained by low yields and high temperatures that spur side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely addresses these issues, offering a safer and more readily available alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and coking in current production methods highlight the need for alternatives [1][2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, offers improved energy efficiency [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5][6].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases, with yields diluted by co-products. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, directly converting propane. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is pivotal, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures, surpassing conventional methods. However, SO2 addition boosts propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity, illustrating ODHP's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, driving the need for efficient methods. DDP's thermal constraints, requiring high temperatures for yield, are addressed by ODHP. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in ODHP lowers operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift, and curbs carbon oxide formation by preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, addressing these challenges (Quote 2), but oxygen can cause overoxidation and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to control complete oxidation and improve ODH activity and selectivity, yet none have achieved yields comparable to industrial olefin production methods (Quotes 4-6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and beneficial for catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation and ensure controlled conditions.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially boosting efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, affecting catalyst performance. Advanced catalysts and precise temperature control are vital for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via cracking and dehydrogenation is energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and requires high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, affecting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which further reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting its use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand and issues with current production methods, such as reduced co-product yields from steam and catalytic cracking, highlight the need for alternatives. ODHP presents higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 as an attractive oxidant for chemical CO2 utilization, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces specific challenges that are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with selectivity decline as conversion increases and propane cracking at high temperatures, generating by-products. ODHP targets these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen use as an oxidant raises safety and process stability concerns, affecting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, enhancing selectivity. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the importance of oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers an alternative with potentially more economical feedstock and efficient conversion. However, it encounters limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, on the other hand, avoids overoxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, possibly leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing some issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, faces low yields and equilibrium constraints, failing to meet demand. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is endothermic, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation, limiting propylene yield. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation poses a selectivity challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is advantageous in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation by shifting the equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as observed in Ga2O3's rapid deactivation and Cr(VI) to Cr(III) reduction in chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a low-energy, catalyst-free process, overcoming thermodynamic limitations. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but carbon dioxide, a safer, milder, and readily available oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP, an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of current methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, presenting a trade-off in environmental impact and economic feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, potentially more energy-efficient route, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring separation. Nitrous oxide enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation are addressed by ODHP, which uses SO2 as an oxidant. This enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion but decreasing propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting ODHP's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limits and high temperature requirements are addressed by ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant, which reduces operating temperatures and enhances propane conversion. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to mitigate these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical chemical feedstock, is traditionally produced through costly and unsustainable non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient and simpler alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest that CO2 could serve as a mild oxidant, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, thus addressing the limitations of oxygen use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, especially via steam cracking, is energy-demanding. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative but encounters issues with oxygen as an oxidant, leading to CO and CO2 formation and reduced propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates strict control to avert uncontrolled reactions, and its separation from air increases costs. Precise oxygen dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, but must tackle over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on oil. ODHP offers improved energy efficiency and selectivity but encounters issues with oxygen use, such as overoxidation, costly oxygen separation, temperature control, and potential yield reduction. Effective catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is offset by risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation, and its selectivity promotion is counterbalanced by selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference in steam crackers, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous with high selectivity and low investment, is hindered by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's further oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine, though more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative but faces challenges with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause side reactions affecting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. Oxygen's use as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, impacting selectivity control due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with the added benefit of CO2 utilisation for syngas production. However, the lack of exploration on oxygen use in ODHP presents a key oxidant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher reactivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but struggles with selectivity at higher conversion rates and propane cracking, reflecting the elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity. Oxygen as an oxidant introduces safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and costly, emitting greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective solution, potentially increasing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant further reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation in methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of O2 remains a challenge for process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking face challenges due to high temperatures, precious metal catalyst costs, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and promote propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but also results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation's low yields, due to equilibrium constraints and high-temperature side reactions, are improved by exothermic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). However, ODHP struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant in PDH, aiding coke removal and shifting the equilibrium favorably. Yet, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, impacting its efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder, and more accessible solution, addressing these issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coking hinder efficiency [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal methods [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, direct conversion of propane to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity, reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability, with N2O showing promise for higher propylene selectivity and lower catalyst deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity at high temperatures, a significant advantage. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating a trade-off. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are often overlooked in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as an oxidant offers a solution by reducing operating temperatures through hydrogen oxidation, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation is hindered by side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to mitigate these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to improve selectivity and conversion while preventing complete oxidation (Quote 4). Despite progress, no catalytic system has yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for various industries, faces challenges due to high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these concerns. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, leading to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, thus enhancing the viability of ODHP as an alternative production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP is a more efficient method but faces challenges with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, which can cause CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, and air separation adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and lack selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to undesired byproducts and potential catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation. Oxygen, a favored oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation and selectivity losses with higher conversion, affecting yields. H2S in the feedstock can boost propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher yields but faces oxidant selection challenges. F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics. Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive. I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand underscores the need for improved production methods, making ODHP a promising alternative with higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique challenges, a less explored area impacting the method's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP presents potential improvements but faces challenges in selectivity and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen leads to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical, faces a supply shortage due to high demand. Current production, via steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation, is constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these issues but risks overoxidation to carbon oxides when using oxygen, leading to inefficiency and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP, using propane, offers improved efficiency but has limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a gentler oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, though it doesn't counteract the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and might increase coke deposition due to competitive adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high-temperature requirements and costly catalysts prone to deactivation (quotes 2, 5-6). ODHP offers a lower reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, potentially converting propylene to carbon monoxide/dioxide (quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates overoxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion by utilizing produced hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift reaction (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the importance of oxidant selection in achieving high propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium issues, requiring high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation affects propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH is promising for utilizing CO2, managing coke, and promoting reactions through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers a low-energy alternative without catalyst regeneration, overcoming thermodynamic hurdles. However, using oxygen can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Employing CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant addresses these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like coking and thermodynamic constraints in current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for alternatives. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process, offers improved energy efficiency but faces challenges with oxygen use, increasing energy losses and fixed costs, and CO2 production, which adds environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a cleaner, more efficient alternative, with oxygen enhancing yields but risking deep oxidation and catalyst issues. N2O improves selectivity and stability but is costly. Oxidant choice is pivotal in ODHP, affecting reaction pathway, selectivity, and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP tackles by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates efficient production methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive. Oxidative dehydrogenation with CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, enhances propane conversion, and minimizes over-oxidation compared to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by introducing an oxidant, aims to address these, potentially lowering energy use and coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative petroleum processing, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity necessitates controlled conditions and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, adding to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene demand-supply gap. ODHP, an on-purpose propene technology, offers exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to avoid converting propene into CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to carbon oxides and complicates temperature control, affecting propylene yield and catalyst stability. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges such as high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. The presence of H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in lower yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and declining yields as ethane becomes the preferred feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while managing the exothermic reaction for safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the potential of ODHP, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilisation, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen presents unexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and avoiding propane cracking. Oxygen selection as an oxidant raises safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally problematic, with reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution with improved propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces supply issues due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures, overcoming these limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, complicating olefin selectivity. CO2 avoids over-oxidation but doesn't provide enough heat, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can mitigate high temperatures but risks overoxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and boosts propane conversion, addressing key production issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, but it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but affects selectivity, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle with low conversion and yield due to equilibrium limitations and high-temperature requirements that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic, non-equilibrium-limited alternative, but it faces challenges with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), acting as a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting the equilibrium towards propylene production, addressing coke issues and utilizing CO2, as seen in the promoting effect of CO2 on PDH through either a two-step or one-step pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and the limitations of current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP offers a direct, energy-efficient route to propylene, being exothermal, but using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental concerns. Innovative catalysts and process designs are crucial for improving performance and addressing these issues, as they can potentially link catalyst performance with innovative process designs to achieve comparable yields to current technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially cleaner and more energy-efficient route, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen increases propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and is costlier. The oxidant choice affects reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production, boosting propane conversion and selectivity at high temperatures by using SO2 as an oxidant, though this results in lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outstrips production, prompting the need for alternatives to DDP, which is limited by thermodynamics and high temperatures. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, mitigates these issues by lowering operating temperatures, enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and curbing carbon oxide production by preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). ODHP, by using an oxidant, offers an exothermic process with reduced coke formation, addressing some issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, but none have matched industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces sustainability and cost challenges with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can reduce propylene selectivity by forming CO and CO2, posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, and adds costs due to oxygen separation from air. Precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a demand-supply gap, with ODHP offering an alternative by enabling exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhancing catalyst stability. This addresses limitations of non-oxidative methods but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and rely on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP is more energy-efficient and selective for propylene. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, are significant. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to potential catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and reduced coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, affecting yields and safety. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity and prevents over-oxidation. Oxygen's use impacts selectivity and conversion, leading to carbon oxides and affecting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers a more feasible alternative, yet polyhalogenation selectivity issues limit single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by traditional methods is energy-intensive and favors large-scale plants, limiting access to remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a decentralized, energy-efficient alternative but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, addressing growing propene demand. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, highlighting the method's limitations despite its potential advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, leading to declining selectivity. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking produces various by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, particularly with selectivity. Oxygen selection in ODHP introduces safety concerns, and propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains unfulfilled due to these hurdles, as achieving high conversion and selectivity has proved elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is costly, energy-intensive, and has reduced yield. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective process, notably when CO2 is used as an oxidant, which cuts costs and emissions. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP for optimal yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective alternative with potentially higher conversion efficiency using propane. However, it faces challenges in oxidant selection: oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks overoxidation and side reactions; CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation, as seen in the endothermic propane dehydrogenation process requiring high temperatures (Quote 2) and the Oleflex process using costly Pt catalysts (Quote 5) that deactivate due to coke formation (Quote 6). ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but faces issues with controlling propylene selectivity (Quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion (Quote 8), addressing limitations of using oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke buildup. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing its ability to remove coke and promote propane dehydrogenation through dual pathways. Oxide catalysts, particularly those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, as a safer oxidant, enhances process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    