Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand challenges current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene and face thermodynamic and coking issues. ODHP directly addresses market needs, offering exothermic energy efficiency and process simplicity as incentives. However, oxygen use in ODHP raises energy and fixed costs due to CO2 by-product. Innovative catalysts and designs are crucial for performance enhancement, aiming to match or exceed yields of current olefin production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route, with oxygen increasing yields but risking deep oxidation. N2O as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses propylene production's equilibrium limitations by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating a trade-off. The text doesn't address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high energy needs limit its effectiveness, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, mitigates this by lowering temperatures through hydrogen oxidation and boosting propane conversion by consuming H2 via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, yet none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's selectivity to olefins is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, leading to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant can mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP presents a more efficient and direct alternative, but faces challenges in oxidant selection, particularly with oxygen, which can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen separation adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas's low-cost ethene, highlights the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP, offering thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, is a promising alternative. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and lack selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to unwanted byproducts and temperature control challenges. Oxygen's cost-effectiveness and abundance are offset by the risk of overoxidation and potential for coke formation, impacting catalyst performance. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and the combustion of desired products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with coke formation. ODHP mitigates this by operating at lower temperatures. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but also triggers unselective combustion, limiting alkene selectivities and causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides, reducing yields. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in yields lower than 30%. Adding H2S to the feed mixture can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, yield low propylene as a by-product, with declining output due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, where oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions for safety. Oxygen's role in ODHP highlights the challenge of selectivity control.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene necessitates alternatives to current production methods, with ODHP as a promising option. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, affecting its viability as an alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP presents potential improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing safety with oxidant selection, notably oxygen. The goal of high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive, highlighting ongoing issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking encounters high energy use, costs, and environmental concerns. ODHP presents a more efficient, selective process using CO2 as an oxidant, which reduces costs, emissions, and energy consumption. However, using O2 risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high demand and supply deficits. Current methods, including steam cracking and dehydrogenation, are limited by high energy input and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and selectivity. Despite advancements with redox-active catalysts, oxygen's role remains a challenge for process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, yet faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to increased coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using molecular oxygen addresses these issues by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, ODHP has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces traditional catalytic and steam cracking outputs, highlighting the need for alternatives. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is limited by low yields and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers a solution by utilizing CO2 and potentially reducing coke formation, a major cause of catalyst deactivation. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, aiding in shifting the equilibrium towards propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy demand, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints are addressed by ODHP, which is energy-efficient and avoids catalyst regeneration and thermodynamic limits. However, O2 use can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand challenges current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion (quote [2]). ODHP directly converts propane to propylene, addressing these issues with improved energy efficiency due to its exothermic nature (quote [8]). However, ODHP has limitations, including higher energy losses and increased CO2 production, impacting economic and environmental considerations (quote [13]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, direct route to propylene, with oxygen enhancing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. Oxygen's high reactivity can lead to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for robust catalysts. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges in dehydrogenation reactions are addressed by ODHP using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, highlighting trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Insufficient propylene production drives the need for alternative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane is limited by high temperature requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures, increases propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these issues by potentially overcoming the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, particularly via steam cracking, faces high energy consumption challenges. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient alternative, yet using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, impacting propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates precise control to prevent runaway reactions and over-oxidation, adding to costs due to its separation from air.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP, offering thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, aims to prevent over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a key challenge.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. Oxygen use in ODHP is cost-effective but risks overoxidation, affecting yield. Precise temperature control and catalyst development are essential to mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, can lead to over-oxidation and selectivity losses due to unselective combustion reactions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. While ODHP promotes high propylene yields, increased conversion leads to selectivity losses due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine offers more feasibility, but polyhalogenation selectivity issues limit propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces challenges, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Key challenges include the need for catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP is a promising alternative for propylene production, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield, and CO2 utilization, which is beneficial for chemical CO2 use. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700°C, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and safety concerns from oxidant selection, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, suffer from high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP is more energy-efficient and cost-effective, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply shortage due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is promising due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and dependence on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, yet struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but struggling to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a promising alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, but it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP addresses some issues of current methods while introducing selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation suffers from low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high-temperature side reactions, leading to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity is hindered by over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH is a promising soft oxidant, utilizing CO2 for coke removal and shifting PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation challenge current production methods [1][2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, impacting environmental and economic considerations [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, emits greenhouse gases, and produces dilutive co-products. ODHP offers a cleaner, more efficient alternative, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen increases yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, albeit at higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice critically affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, offers increased selectivity per pass at high temperatures but involves trade-offs: while enhancing propane conversion, SO2 decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating challenges in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements, necessitating temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike O2 which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also enhances propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, potentially avoids high temperatures, but oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation, leveraging their stability and surface area. However, current catalysts do not match industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently using costly non-oxidative methods, faces challenges addressed by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), offering higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, risking over-oxidation and reduced propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires controlled conditions and precise dosing, increasing costs and safety concerns.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's impact on propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP, with its favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an edge over non-oxidative methods. However, it faces the challenge of preventing over-oxidation of propene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and rely on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields below 30%. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by ethane's preference over naphtha, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency hindering industrial use; bromine offers more feasibility but necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can affect propylene selectivity and yield due to side reactions. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation, managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, addressing growing propene demand. Using CO2 in ODHP provides additional benefits. However, employing oxygen as an oxidant introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher reactivity, which decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, especially propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant is pivotal yet introduces safety concerns, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and costly, with environmental impacts and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, using CO2 as an oxidant to further reduce costs and emissions. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, underscoring the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high demand and limitations in traditional methods. Steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits, offering an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity, as highlighted by the use of redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, lack selectivity, and are economically taxing. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and improved conversion efficiency but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, a safer but endothermic option, can lead to additional coke formation and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (quotes 2, 5, 6). ODHP reduces temperatures but faces selectivity issues due to propylene combustion (quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids overoxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, ODHP has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods due to low yields and equilibrium constraints, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Direct dehydrogenation's high-temperature requirement leads to side reactions and coke formation, necessitating catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH utilizes a greenhouse gas and aids in coke removal, enhancing propylene production by shifting the equilibrium. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as seen with Ga2O3 and chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Yet, O2 in ODHP raises flammability and over-oxidation concerns, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant enhances safety and mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, struggle with growing demand and thermodynamic constraints leading to catalyst deactivation (Quote [2]). ODHP directly addresses these issues by offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process (Quote [8]). However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and CO2 production, posing economic and environmental challenges (Quote [13]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases and co-products. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potential energy savings and fewer co-products. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can increase propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, but may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium constraints, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP improves propane conversion at high temperatures but results in lower propylene selectivities, illustrating the method's efficiency vs. purity trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high temperature requirements and thermodynamic limits are overcome by ODHP, which uses CO2 as a mild oxidant to lower operating temperatures and boost propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, as per quote 3. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 (quote 5) prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially improving thermodynamics and reducing coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity, though they haven't matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. A solution proposed is the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could potentially turn the process exothermic and benefit catalyst coking, mitigating the over-oxidation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient and direct alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, motivating the exploration of ODHP. ODHP offers improved efficiency over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, preventing the over-oxidation of propene into CO and CO2 remains a key challenge for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and depends on declining oil reserves. ODHP is a more energy-efficient method but faces challenges with overoxidation and temperature control when using oxygen, risking catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent overoxidation and coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields. Careful control is essential to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC yields are low due to propylene's by-product status, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen separation. ODHP offers higher yields but faces limitations due to propylene's oxidation, achieving only about 30% yield. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 reactions, though more feasible, require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use for remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection, with oxygen causing side reactions that affect propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, addressing growing propene demand. Its CO2 utilisation for syngas production is an advantage, but using oxygen as an oxidant presents underexplored challenges, impacting its potential as an alternative propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, which decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At elevated temperatures, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, notably propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant raises safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial potential, as achieving high conversion and selectivity remains elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally impactful. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances benefits by saving energy and avoiding over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which can decrease propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like steam cracking and FCC face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's limitations are tied to oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces these issues by lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant prevents deep oxidation, minimizes coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key ODHP limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers advantages with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, yet direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces challenges with low conversion and yields, requiring high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is attractive for utilizing CO2 and its role in coke removal, shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2 as a soft oxidant provides a safer, milder solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, struggle with growing demand and thermodynamic constraints that limit alkane conversion, often leading to rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient alternative as an exothermal process, contrasting with endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces higher energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges. This underscores the need for innovative technologies that can leverage ODHP's advantages while mitigating its limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation, which oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) overcomes using SO2 as an oxidant, notably boosting selectivity at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high temperature requirement limits its effectiveness. ODHP with CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, and curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially avoiding the endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are investigated to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity (Quote 4), though none have yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production technologies (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, being exothermic. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of ODHP while offering a sustainable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant presents challenges. Oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and its reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas increases low-cost ethene, widening the propylene supply-demand gap. ODHP, an alternative method, offers advantages over non-oxidative dehydrogenation due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it faces the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective method, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and necessitates costly oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face high energy consumption and coke formation challenges. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures due to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke, addresses these issues. Oxygen boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields and posing safety concerns. H2S addition enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in boosting yields, selectivity losses occur with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by a shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation into oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 lacks selectivity, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still grapples with polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting efficiency and adaptability. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces challenges, especially with oxygen as an oxidant. Oxygen can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand stresses current production methods, leading to exploration of alternatives. ODHP offers benefits like higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a mitigation strategy. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, highlighting the method's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to drop with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700°C, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, shares similar challenges, especially with oxidant selection, where oxygen use poses safety concerns, hindering its commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective solution with potential emission reductions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity without over-oxidation risks, but oxygen can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2, underscoring the oxidant choice's critical role.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation have limitations: thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures, making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and resource constraints. ODHP, using propane, is a more economical alternative but has limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include high temperatures required for acceptable yields and costly catalysts prone to deactivation. ODHP, an alternative, reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has a drawback of low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, addressing the question on the potential of ODHP as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct PDH is endothermic and thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH utilizes CO2, removes coke, but faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in meeting growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and is limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, highlighting the need for innovative technologies addressing environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, emit greenhouse gases, and suffer from co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxidant choice affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability. Oxygen increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy for separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity, reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion by enhancing selectivity at high temperatures, illustrating its potential. However, oxidant selection presents trade-offs, impacting propylene selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates more economic production methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to solve these, but oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control overoxidation and boost selectivity and conversion. However, current catalytic systems haven't matched the yields of established industrial olefin production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally non-oxidative, faces high costs and sustainability challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. A solution involves using CO2 as a mild oxidant, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions. This approach could maintain high selectivity to propylene under conditions leading to high propane conversion, addressing the main direction for future development in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks, necessitating precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation and increasing costs due to oxygen separation from air.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's impact on propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. A key challenge is preventing propene's over-oxidation, which ODHP must overcome to be viable.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, lack selectivity, and depend on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective solution, but faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation to carbon oxides and temperature control issues, leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Successful ODHP requires precise temperature control, suitable catalysts, and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen enhances propene selectivity and yields but can lead to unselective combustion and over-oxidation, decreasing yields, with selectivity losses at higher conversion rates, potentially dropping yields below 30%. H2S in the feed mixture can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but is limited to about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and limit the use of remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which ODHP addresses by offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is promising for CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges, underscoring the need for careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: declining selectivity with increased conversion due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, and propane cracking at high temperatures, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety and process challenges, impacting commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues, with reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, especially when CO2 is used as an oxidant, reducing costs and greenhouse gas emissions. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant selection in propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits and thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, leading to high energy demands and catalyst deactivation from coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can result in overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity, despite advancements with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the reaction exothermic, but risks overoxidation and impacts olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but doesn't compensate for dehydrogenation's endothermic nature and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can mitigate high temperature requirements but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, offering significant advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via conventional methods faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, addresses these by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production via catalytic and steam cracking faces low yields, equilibrium limitations, and high temperatures fostering side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances coke removal and shifts the reaction equilibrium, favoring propylene production. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction presents a limitation. Catalysts containing Cr or Ga show promise in ODHP with CO2, but deactivation remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers a low-energy, catalyst-free alternative to current propylene production methods, overcoming thermodynamic limitations. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, often favoring ethylene. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamic constraints and coking, leading to catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly converts propane to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges. New technologies are sought to address these limitations, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route by directly converting propane. Oxygen boosts propylene yields in ODHP but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant selection is critical in ODHP, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts selectivity at higher temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of propylene selectivity, highlighting oxidant selection trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by lowering operating temperatures through hydrogen oxidation and heat release, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2 and minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, could overcome these by initiating reactions without high temperatures. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, like vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, aim to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally costly and unsustainable, faces challenges in efficiency and sustainability. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a promising alternative, boasting higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of ODHP while enhancing its potential as a sustainable propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, which can lead to CO and CO2 formation and reduced selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation, highlighting the oxidant's role and associated challenges.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in steam cracking widened the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it faces the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers higher efficiency and selectivity, using oxygen as a cheap, abundant oxidant. However, oxygen risks overoxidation, forming byproducts, and causing hotspots, leading to temperature control issues and catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities, risking over-oxidation and explosions. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's selectivity promotion for propene is counterbalanced by selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields as propylene is a by-product. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous with high selectivity and low investment, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited by the consecutive oxidation of propylene, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting the use of remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection; oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. Propane's weaker bonds make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product generation. However, employing oxygen introduces specific, less-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, which diminishes selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures over 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP, aiming to enhance conversion and selectivity, shares these challenges, notably with oxygen as an oxidant, introducing safety and process stability concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and costly. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective solution with CO2 as an oxidant, reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient conversion using propane, but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and affects olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, potentially leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, notably propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, minimizes coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, making it a superior alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also introduces selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is hindered by low yields, equilibrium constraints, and high-temperature side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium-limited, but selectivity issues due to over-oxidation persist. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers promise in PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and shifting equilibrium, yet faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, resolves these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene challenges current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues underscore the need for innovation. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermic process. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 by-product, illustrating oxidant selection challenges. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially cleaner route with higher yields when using oxygen, but risks deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. N2O provides higher selectivity and slower deactivation, albeit at higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity at high temperatures but increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane use. This highlights the trade-offs in oxidant selection for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for yield. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers temperatures and boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which prevents over-oxidation and cuts carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, can lower energy needs and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, help suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from petroleum is costly and unsustainable. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful use in other partial oxidation reactions. Yields in propylene from ODHP have not yet reached levels interesting for industrial implementation, indicating room for improvement in catalysts and reactor configurations.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially surpassing non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP is more energy-efficient with higher propylene yield but struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap, risks overoxidation and hotspots, impacting temperature control and catalyst activity, crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke and preferring oxygen as an oxidant for enhanced propylene selectivity. However, oxygen can cause selectivity losses and over-oxidation, limiting yields. Introducing H2S improves propylene selectivity. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is excessively reactive, Cl2 reactions lack selectivity, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers greater feasibility but necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering the use of remote gas reserves. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions while preventing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is essential for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for alternative production methods due to compromises in current techniques like steam cracking. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation for chemical CO2 and syngas by-product generation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly using oxygen, poses safety issues and complicates the process, hindering ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and costly, with reduced yields. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective alternative, improving selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant can lead to propane over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but struggles with oxidant choice. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, while not providing enough heat, consumes hydrogen, avoids over-oxidation, but may increase coke formation and compete for catalyst sites, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures and catalyst deactivation, as in CATOFIN and Oleflex processes. ODHP, being exothermic, could lower reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can prevent overoxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, offering a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers an alternative with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to thermodynamic limits, requiring high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke buildup. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic constraints but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and potentially reducing coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction, impacting its viability. (HeinritzAdrian et al., 2008; Olah and Molnar, 2003; Xu et al., 2006; Zangeneh et al., 2011)", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "ODHP tackles high energy costs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits in propylene production, offering lower energy use and no catalyst regeneration. Oxygen's presence in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations of current methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are constrained by thermodynamics and coking, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP offers an exothermic, direct route to produce propylene from propane, improving energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and offering improved energy efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, emit pollutants, and produce diluting co-products. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient alternative, potentially boosting propylene yields. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases propylene output but risks deep oxidation and necessitates costly oxygen separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity, mitigating deep oxidation, but may reduce activity and has higher costs and environmental issues. Selecting the right oxidant is critical, balancing yield, catalyst stability, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP overcomes equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering higher selectivity at high temperatures using SO2 as an oxidant. However, adding SO2 boosts propane conversion at the cost of propylene selectivity, illustrating the trade-offs in this method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, and prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though no system matches current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions. This approach aims to maintain high selectivity to propylene under conditions leading to high propane conversion, a critical direction for future development.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by traditional methods is inefficient. ODHP is a promising alternative, but oxidant choice is critical. Oxygen, though effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene yield and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity, necessitating precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers enhanced efficiency and catalyst stability, thanks to favorable thermodynamics and coke prevention. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation into CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, leading to undesired carbon oxides and temperature control issues, impacting catalyst performance. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are vital for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, reduces coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway, yet higher conversion decreases selectivity due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, limiting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC suffers from low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP could enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 is slow and needs high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield, presenting a key challenge.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods, making ODHP significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization benefits. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP is underexplored, marking a critical area for future research, addressing the challenges of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers improvements but faces selectivity decline and propane cracking challenges. Oxidant choice, notably safety concerns with oxygen, is pivotal for ODHP's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, notably steam cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially enhancing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further cut costs, emissions, and energy use. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, lowering propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers an alternative, using cost-effective propane and potentially improving conversion efficiency. However, it encounters limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, prevents overoxidation but doesn't fully address the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke. ODHP offers a lower-temperature alternative but risks overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it struggles with low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents a selectivity challenge, critical in light of growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production faces challenges with low yields, equilibrium constraints, high-temperature side reactions, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic process that overcomes thermodynamic limitations but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, shifts the equilibrium towards propylene production, aids in coke removal, and utilizes a greenhouse gas, making it an eco-friendly option. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke buildup and Cr reduction, affecting its efficiency. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, showing promise in addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely addresses these issues, offering a milder and more readily available alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations in current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, underscore the need for new technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process, directly produces propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference between feed and product, and CO2 production adds to environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient alternative, with oxygen boosting propylene yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, albeit with potential activity reduction and higher costs. Oxygen's high reactivity can lead to rapid catalyst deactivation, underlining the need for robust catalyst development. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP overcomes by employing SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 boosts propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields (Quote 2). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant alters the pathway, reducing operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat (Quote 3). CO2 enhances propane conversion by consuming H2 and curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, offers an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, current catalytic systems haven't matched the yields of established industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex, leading to by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can reduce selectivity to propylene due to deep oxidation and poses safety risks, necessitating precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation and increasing costs from oxygen separation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas widens the propylene supply-demand gap, necessitating on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, struggle with high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection, where oxygen's tendency to cause overoxidation and carbon oxide formation requires precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. The success of ODHP hinges on suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but can limit alkene selectivities and cause over-oxidation, decreasing yields. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, selectivity losses occur with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low selectivity, declining due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost yields but faces consecutive oxidation issues, limiting propylene yields to 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting its use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative, but faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction for safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the potential of ODHP in propylene production, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges, affecting its implementation. Despite these challenges, ODHP remains a promising alternative with CO2 utilisation as a by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures, yielding by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and avoiding propane cracking. Oxidant choice, notably oxygen, presents safety and process issues, hindering ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally impactful. ODHP presents as a more efficient and cost-effective alternative with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, and avoids over-oxidation. However, O2 use risks over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes leading to high energy input, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges such as high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependency on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP emerges as a more economical alternative with potentially efficient conversion rates. However, it encounters limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, a safer option, struggles to offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges: high temperatures required for olefin yields (Quote 2), costly Pt catalysts leading to deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation (Quotes 5-6). ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion (Quote 8), addressing limitations of traditional methods and ODHP's challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and necessitating catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and aiding in coke removal. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation and chromium reduction, impacting its efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. However, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, compromising selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including growing demand and thermodynamic constraints that limit conversion and cause rapid catalyst deactivation [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of the process [13], highlighting the need for careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. N2O, though costlier and environmentally concerning, enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, making it a viable oxidant option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP tackles propylene production's equilibrium limitations by enhancing selectivity with SO2 as an oxidant, offering an advantage over conventional methods. However, this comes with a trade-off: while SO2 boosts propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to using pure propane feed, illustrating the method's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and enhances propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 minimizes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, addresses these issues by potentially overcoming limitations like the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant introduces risks of overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, mitigate these issues due to their thermal stability and surface area. Despite advancements, no catalytic system matches the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with low propylene yields and over-oxidation issues when using oxygen, limiting olefin selectivity. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate over-oxidation, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as seen in other partial oxidation reactions, aiming to enhance propylene yields and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap drives interest in ODHP, which offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via conventional methods faces challenges like high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it grapples with oxidant selection, notably the use of oxygen, which can lead to overoxidation and necessitates costly air separation. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent catalyst deactivation and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity but can limit alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions, potentially leading to over-oxidation and decreased yields. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high yields, but increased conversion can result in selectivity losses due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is constrained by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yield to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene underscores the need for dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP, which boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen in ODHP, indicating a research gap, are underexplored.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these, but faces challenges in selectivity at higher conversion rates and increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, poses safety and process control issues, affecting ODHP's commercial viability. Combining high propane conversion with high propylene selectivity remains a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and costly. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, using CO2 as an oxidant, which reduces greenhouse gas emissions and saves energy. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits and thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, leading to high energy demands and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures without thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and rely on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers potentially efficient conversion but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance. Both oxidants present trade-offs in ODHP, highlighting its complex nature.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke. ODHP reduces temperatures but struggles with propylene overoxidation, lowering selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, making it an attractive alternative. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates due to total oxidation, emphasizing the ongoing search for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds traditional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that trigger side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and avoids equilibrium limits but struggles with over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) enhances PDH by consuming hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or directly oxidizing propane to propylene, also acting as a coke remover. However, PDH with CO2 leads to rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy demands, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, enhancing safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    