Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its efficiency. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, aligning better with market needs. Its exothermic nature improves energy efficiency over endothermic processes. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns. This highlights the need for innovative catalysts and reactor designs to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses this by offering higher selectivity per pass, especially with SO2 as an oxidant at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike O2, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, no catalytic system matches current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to abundant low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages over non-oxidative methods: exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is counterbalanced by risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the requirement for large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized process. However, it has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, limiting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. Selectivity control is particularly challenging in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilization as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, highlighting a gap in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with selectivity decline and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental impacts, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially lowering costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits by saving energy and promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion technologies. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces new challenges, particularly in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and aiding in coke removal. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant addresses these problems, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, and CO2 production adds environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner and more energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers a solution by reducing operating temperatures through heat release and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike O2, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, have been studied to mitigate overoxidation, offering high thermal stability and favorable reducibility. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP has limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness, selectivity losses occur with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low propylene yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers further decreases propylene output, while demand rises due to the polypropylene market's expansion. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but faces challenges with propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting its yield to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but still struggle with polyhalogenation selectivity, affecting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene oxidizes more readily than propane, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity than traditional methods, but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, it has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene's fate due to overoxidation risks, impacting selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, addresses these by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH (CO2PDH) is promising for utilizing CO2 and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in CO2PDH but face rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and more readily available soft oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. New technologies are needed to address these issues, focusing on catalyst performance and process design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts product selectivity and catalyst stability, with N2O showing promise for higher propylene selectivity and lower catalyst deactivation rates compared to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses the equilibrium limitation of dehydrogenation reactions, offering an advantage over conventional methods, especially at high temperatures where SO2 as an oxidant increases selectivity per pass. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing demand for propylene outpaces current production methods, necessitating more economic techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) alters the pathway, reducing operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these concerns. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, are significant. Using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity but also causes over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Oxygen's use necessitates careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, with increasing conversion, oxygen leads to selectivity losses due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges, including low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's consecutive oxidation to oxygenated products, with a reported maximum yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency of expensive I2; bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Challenges include needing catalysts to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to ensure safety. Propane's weaker CH and CC bonds make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, highlighting a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane. These methods are energy-intensive and prone to catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but it has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, expensive precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation and active species separation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a favorable alternative to oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke through the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in CO2PDH but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, leading to poor selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a key environmental and economic consideration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene, with lower energy requirements. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant choice. Oxygen can boost propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass, especially at high temperatures, and increases propane conversion, though propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, no catalytic system matches current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, as noted in Quote 1. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, presenting thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, as per Quote 2. However, Quote 3 highlights the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and undesired byproduct formation, necessitating precise temperature control and catalyst development to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. The use of oxygen also involves separation from air, adding to energy costs. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to the presence of oxygen. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but also leads to over-oxidation, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP enhances propylene yields, yet presents risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's selectivity promotion for propene is counterbalanced by unselective combustion reactions, causing selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it has its own challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to selectivity decline. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with oxidant selection, where oxygen use raises safety concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, costs, environmental impact, and byproduct generation. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs, emissions, and energy use compared to traditional methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, which suffer from thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints but faces issues with oxygen use, leading to overoxidation and inefficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these by reducing reaction temperatures, but it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred choice over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Yet, oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant is safer, milder, and resolves these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of alkane ODH. This highlights the need for new technologies that address the limitations of current methods while leveraging the advantages of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce catalyst deactivation, but it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts conversion at high temperatures, enhancing selectivity per pass. However, adding SO2 to the feed increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues, offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially combusting desirable products and causing coke formation, which deactivates the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but can lead to over-oxidation and selectivity losses, with propene yields often below 30%. The introduction of H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation's high temperature requirement complicates product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote natural gas use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The challenge in ODHP is controlling selectivity due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, making it a promising alternative. CO2 utilisation in ODHP produces hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products, addressing environmental concerns. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges that require further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher reactivity to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, yet faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen selection as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety concerns and process upsets, highlighting the need for careful oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental impacts, and byproduct formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy compared to traditional methods. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like supply deficits and limitations in dehydrogenation processes, including thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but it has its own advantages and limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but it risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, as highlighted in quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also presents the challenge of maintaining propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant mitigates these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to thermodynamic constraints and coking issues that limit alkane conversion and cause rapid catalyst deactivation [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference between feed and product, and CO2 production adds environmental and economic considerations [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O, while improving propene selectivity and reducing catalyst deactivation, may have lower activity and higher costs, with environmental concerns. Oxidant selection is critical, balancing yield, reaction pathway, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by significantly increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, while SO2 boosts propane conversion, it results in lower propylene selectivities than with pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages over non-oxidative methods: exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability by preventing coke deposition. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant choice. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock and growing demand for propylene. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially increase propylene yields but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical; F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more feasible option, but polyhalogenation selectivity issues necessitate a higher propane to bromine ratio, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. The exothermic nature of the reaction must be managed to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to reduced co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, specifically ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising approach for chemical CO2 utilisation, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, highlighting a gap in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, as propylene oxidizes more easily than propane, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges, especially with propylene's higher reactivity. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, introduces safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP offers an economical propane feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, expensive precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing the limitations of both current methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and thermodynamic constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. CO2's promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, can mitigate these issues, making it a preferable choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking, leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene, potentially reducing emissions and co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O, while improving propene selectivity and reducing catalyst deactivation, may have lower activity and higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass, especially at high temperatures, but decreases propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text lacks discussion on challenges with oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers an alternative, reducing operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, using oxygen introduces issues like overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to mitigate overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, but challenges remain, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, making the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complexity, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient, direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation, highlighting the specific challenges associated with its use.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially outperforming non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, complicating temperature control and potentially causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are key to mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation, but has its own limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet poses risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation offers high selectivity but is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process. However, it has its own challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. The need for catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety is crucial. Propane's weaker CH and CC bonds make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased interest in dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing environmental concerns. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing various by-products. ODHP offers potential advantages by potentially increasing conversion and selectivity compared to traditional methods. However, it faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking at high temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like steam cracking face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these issues by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks, as highlighted in quote [7]. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a favorable alternative to oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation and reduce coke formation, as suggested in quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, mitigates these issues by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, a key raw material, outpaces production by conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, highlighting the need for alternatives (HeinritzAdrian et al., 2008). Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is promising but faces challenges due to low conversion and yields, exacerbated by thermodynamic limitations and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation (Olah and Molnar, 2003). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, yet struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation (Xu et al., 2006). Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, presents an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation (Zangeneh et al., 2011). Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction (Michorczyk et al., 2011; Zhang et al., 2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and more available soft oxidant, mitigates these problems effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies are needed to address these issues, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, enhancing propane conversion. However, propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers an alternative, altering the dehydrogenation pathway to reduce operating temperatures and increase propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to overcome these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion, though none have matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages over non-oxidative methods: exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It also risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields is counterbalanced by these challenges. H2S addition in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's benefits, extensive selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but is constrained by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yield to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the requirement for large-scale plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The challenge of selectivity control in ODHP is exacerbated by propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, as highlighted in quote 2 and 6. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures, as it is exothermic, but this comes with the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide, affecting propylene selectivity, as noted in quote 7. The choice of oxidant is critical, with CO2 being a better option than oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation and reduce coke formation, as mentioned in quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP addresses some issues but introduces others, highlighting the complex role of oxidants in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces challenges with low conversion and yields, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a concern due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, presents a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. The promoting effect of CO2 shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 experiences rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using O2 can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, as a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face limitations due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP offers an alternative, notably using SO2 as an oxidant, which boosts selectivity at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat. It also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by initiating reactions with an oxidant, avoiding high temperatures. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a demand-supply gap, motivating exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially improving efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and reliance on depleting petroleum. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient alternative with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues. Precise temperature control is needed to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, it presents challenges such as the risk of explosive mixtures and extensive selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more feasible option but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic nature of the reaction to ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially making ODHP attractive. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. CO2 use in ODHP is promising for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the oxidant's critical role in process outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by high energy requirements and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, offering an advantage over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low conversion and yield, exacerbated by equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative that bypasses thermodynamic limitations but faces challenges in propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Soft oxidants, particularly CO2, are promising for PDH as they utilize greenhouse gases and act as coke removers. CO2's promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 is marked by rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant mitigates these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental concerns. The success of ODHP hinges on catalyst performance and innovative process designs, aiming to match or exceed current technologies' yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene production with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. However, ODHP has its own set of advantages and limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but it also risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation risk, but it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical in ODHP, influencing reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by significantly increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, while SO2 boosts propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures through heat release and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces overoxidation risks and potential reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation reactions, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates diluents and careful control to prevent runaway reactions, impacting safety. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields but risks over-oxidation and selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is constrained by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yield to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety are key challenges. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as a by-product. However, the literature lacks exploration of oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP, presenting a gap in understanding its full potential and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements by potentially enhancing conversion and selectivity compared to traditional methods. However, ODHP faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking at higher temperatures. The choice of oxidant is critical, with oxygen presenting safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but it has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods and ODHP challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers a solution by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for lower temperatures but affects selectivity, highlighting the oxidant's critical role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields, equilibrium limitations, and high temperatures causing side reactions and coke formation. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring temperatures above 800 K for feasible conversions, but this leads to reduced propylene yield and frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity remains a challenge due to over-oxidation. Soft oxidants, particularly CO2, are promising alternatives in PDH, utilizing CO2 and offering a coke-removing effect. CO2's promoting effect can be explained by hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction, shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation, or by direct propane oxidation to propylene. Active oxide catalysts in non-oxidative dehydrogenation are also effective in CO2-assisted PDH, with Cr and Ga-based materials showing high activity and selectivity. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, can address these issues, enhancing the process's safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with the growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints that limit alkane conversion and cause rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, aligning better with market demand. As an exothermal process, ODHP improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant leads to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. However, it has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, yet it has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by significantly increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text doesn't address challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. It also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, addresses these issues, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces challenges like overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to mitigate these issues due to their favorable properties (Quote 4-5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial technologies (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is necessary to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like cracking and dehydrogenation face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is offset by risks of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking (SC) and fluidic catalytic cracking (FCC) faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale plants, limiting natural gas utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge includes finding catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, literature lacks exploration of challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP, a critical aspect for its potential adoption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like FCC and steam cracking, face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, as highlighted in quote [2]. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst, as mentioned in quote [2].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and aiding in coke removal. CO2's promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Active oxide catalysts in non-oxidative PDH are also effective in CO2-assisted processes, with Cr and Ga-based catalysts showing high activity and selectivity. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic freedom. Yet, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. CO2, a safer, milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    