Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. The catalyst's performance, including activity and selectivity, is critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, environmental impact, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a more direct and potentially cleaner route, with oxygen as an oxidant boosting propylene yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, albeit with lower activity, higher costs, and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP overcomes the equilibrium limitation in propylene production, with SO2 as an oxidant enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a key advantage. However, while SO2 boosts propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are not elaborated upon.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are crucial for suppressing complete oxidation and enhancing selectivity and conversion (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and rely on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation to carbon oxides and complicates temperature control, crucial for preventing hotspots and coke formation that can deactivate the catalyst. Successful ODHP implementation requires suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. Over-oxidation to carbon oxides reduces propene yields, requiring careful control to avoid explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in lower propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is hindered by thermodynamic constraints requiring high temperatures, complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but faces a 30% cap due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, hindering remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene necessitates alternative production methods to supplement current techniques, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is promising for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen in ODHP presents significant challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, as highlighted by the elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, is critical yet poses safety concerns and process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and energy usage, and minimizes greenhouse gas emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, illustrating the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges, including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, which suffer from thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of O2 remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion process but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a lower reaction temperature but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low conversion and yield due to thermodynamic equilibrium, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a promising soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and aiding in coke removal. Its promoting effect can be explained by hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also effective with CO2, though PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues, making the process safer and more effective.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations like thermodynamic constraints and coking in current production methods, highlight the need for alternatives. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, addressing thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. This underscores the demand for innovative technologies that can optimize propylene production while mitigating environmental impacts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, struggle with high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, directly converting propane. Using oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and costly oxygen separation. N2O as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, significantly boosting selectivity at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient on-purpose methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates these issues by reducing operating temperatures through heat release and enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 as an oxidant prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by adding an oxidant, aims to solve these, but using oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are studied to boost selectivity and conversion while curbing complete oxidation, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, which reduces propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause overoxidation, necessitating precise temperature control and catalyst development. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are advantages, but managing its potential for overoxidation is crucial for successful ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet its use presents risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation, leading to selectivity losses.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is limited by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and centralization, hindering remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a decentralized, energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Key challenges include developing catalysts to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, prompting interest in dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP. This method boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it a promising CO2 utilisation technique. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges that are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, is critical yet poses safety and process stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues, with reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, offering improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to propane over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on oil. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion. However, it faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but endothermic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via traditional methods faces challenges: high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, offering a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for a more effective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, a key industrial raw material, outstrips production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, highlighting the need for alternatives. Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic, non-equilibrium-limited process, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), as a soft oxidant in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), is promising for utilizing greenhouse gas and mitigating coke formation, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, effective in non-oxidative PDH, also work in CO2PDH, though rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant safely and mildly addresses these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal methods. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. The success of ODHP hinges on catalyst performance and innovative process designs, aiming to match or exceed current technologies' yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and yield dilution by co-products. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. However, its effectiveness is influenced by the choice of oxidant. Oxygen can increase propylene yields due to direct conversion of propane to propylene and CO2, but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant selection in ODHP is critical, balancing higher yields with limitations such as over-oxidation and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity and propane conversion at high temperatures, though propylene selectivity is lower than with pure propane feed. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP is less documented, presenting an area for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating alternative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also enhances propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially overcoming limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no system has matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces sustainability and cost challenges with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant limits selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex, leading to by-product formation. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation, highlighting the challenges of its use.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased shale gas use for ethene production has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially outperforming non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and rely on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though abundant, risks overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to product combustion and catalyst deactivation. Effective catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. While oxygen boosts propylene yields, it also introduces risks of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields and selectivity, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but faces the challenge of propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more viable but still encounter polyhalogenation selectivity issues, constraining single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety are crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane pose a greater selectivity control challenge in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand necessitates alternatives to conventional cracking methods, which can compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 as a promising oxidant for chemical CO2 utilization and syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, highlighting the elusive goal of propane oxydehydrogenation and the decline in selectivity with conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high costs, energy use, and environmental issues. ODHP is a more efficient and selective alternative. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, enhancing selectivity. However, O2 risks over-oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen can cause olefins to overoxidize into carbon oxides, impacting reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, while not providing enough heat, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, though it may increase coke deposition and competitively adsorb on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can lower reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods like catalytic and steam cracking, highlighting the need for alternatives. Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation affects propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising in PDH for utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits are addressed by ODHP, offering lower energy needs, no catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic freedom. O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, as a safer, milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues hinder efficiency. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies are needed to address these challenges, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route with lower energy requirements and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP overcomes using SO2 as an oxidant, improving selectivity at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 boosts propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. DDP is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to address these, but oxygen risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, help suppress complete oxidation and improve selectivity, yet none match current industrial olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking faces challenges like high energy consumption, complex processes, and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions, and oxygen separation from air increases costs. Precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, motivating on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient process with higher propylene selectivity, but it has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, complicating temperature control and risking catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for balancing oxygen's benefits with its risks in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from coke formation and high temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propylene yields but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed improves propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand increases the need for on-purpose propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 reactions, while more feasible, require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, notably steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale centralized plants, hindering natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge includes finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for efficient production methods, making ODHP an attractive alternative. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes, with the added benefit of CO2 utilization. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve this but shares similar hurdles. Oxidant selection complicates the process, impacting safety and efficiency. The elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation highlights its unfulfilled commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy demands, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs, emissions, and energy use. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice significantly impacts yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation (quotes 2, 5, 6). ODHP offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures, but it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks (quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP enables lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, struggles with low yields and equilibrium constraints, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). However, PDH faces challenges like low conversion and thermodynamic limitations. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process not bound by thermodynamic limits, offers potential but suffers from propylene selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH presents an innovative solution by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, yet rapid catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but require managing issues like coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP addresses these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen's use can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer, milder oxidant effectively mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking limit its efficiency [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly addresses these issues by producing propylene more efficiently, thanks to its exothermal nature, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance is crucial for the economic viability of ODHP [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner route, potentially reducing energy needs and emissions. However, ODHP's challenges lie in oxidant selection: oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation, while N2O improves selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures, offering an advantage. However, propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and simpler process, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but faces limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and raises safety concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use and low selectivity challenges. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control and can cause catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy consumption and coke formation. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially leading to over-oxidation and requiring careful control. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, addressing oxygen's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but is limited to a 30% propylene yield due to consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2, while more feasible, needs a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen in ODHP can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, avoiding over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic reaction is vital to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene challenges current production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. ODHP using CO2 can produce syngas, aiding in chemical CO2 utilization. However, the literature lacks exploration of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP, presenting a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with selectivity maintenance and propane cracking management. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, introduces safety and process issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive, as selectivity declines rapidly with conversion and propane cracking becomes significant above 700 C.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy use, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative, potentially reducing energy consumption and costs while minimizing greenhouse gas emissions, especially when CO2 is used as an oxidant. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but lacks sufficient heat, potentially increasing coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and promotes propane conversion, addressing limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP results in low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect, either by shifting the equilibrium through the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation, is significant. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction, as seen with Ga2O3 and chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant makes the process safer and more efficient, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, outpaces production by traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are limited by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers an exothermal, energy-efficient route to propylene production, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, directly converting propane with potential environmental benefits. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates over-oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is pivotal, affecting the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, mitigates energy needs and coke formation (Quote 2). Yet, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to prevent overoxidation and boost selectivity (Quote 4), though none have equaled industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene yield. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates controlled conditions and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, increasing costs and safety concerns.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a supply-demand gap for propylene, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP, with its favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an advantage over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control and can cause catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. While oxygen enhances propylene yields, it presents risks like over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production through SC and FCC yields low selectivity, declining due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, requires high temperatures, complicating product separation. ODHP could enhance yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation, with a max yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety, addressing the challenges of propane's weaker bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes, making it a promising CO2 utilization technique. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges that require further exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but shares similar issues. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, poses safety risks, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions compared to steam cracking. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is key in ODHP for optimal yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and boosts propane conversion, addressing key limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting conversion. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Demand for propylene exceeds conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction. (HeinritzAdrian et al., 2008; Olah and Molnar, 2003; Xu et al., 2006; Zangeneh et al., 2011; Zhang et al., 2011)", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces production due to ethylene preference and thermodynamic constraints in dehydrogenation, leading to rapid catalyst deactivation. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation from air. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, but may lower activity and increase costs. The choice of oxidant is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances propane conversion but at the cost of lower propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. ODHP, by incorporating an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen can cause overoxidation of olefins and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have yet matched the yields of established industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use in ODHP risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety issues due to its reactivity. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic reaction at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition, thus potentially improving efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, potentially leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are vital to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke buildup. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing yields and posing explosion risks. Its effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet it can result in selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements in propylene yields and selectivity but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical, with F2 being unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 causing non-selective reactions, and I2 reactions being slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, potentially compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a chemical CO2 utilisation strategy and producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant choice is critical, with oxygen presenting safety and process issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive due to these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy demands, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen use, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and depend on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and can cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP could lower temperatures but risks overoxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in lower propylene selectivity, reflecting the trade-offs in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low conversion and yield, necessitating high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative, but selectivity issues due to over-oxidation persist. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers benefits by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, yet rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction to Cr(III) remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy, catalyst issues, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP risks flammability and poor selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and FCC struggles with growing demand and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene with improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases, with co-products that reduce efficiency. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene, potentially lowering energy use and emissions. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant can boost propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates over-oxidation, though it may decrease activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is pivotal, affecting the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP using SO2 as an oxidant enhances selectivity at high temperatures, offering an alternative. However, adding SO2 to the feed increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating new methods. DDP's high energy needs limit its efficiency. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and boosting propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, while minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation, as seen in quotes [3] and [5].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these by initiating the reaction differently. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and improve selectivity, yet none have matched the efficiency of current industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, complex, and produce unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an on-purpose technology with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2. ODHP has potential for improved efficiency over non-oxidative methods due to exothermic reactions at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but it faces limitations, especially in oxidant choice. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, requiring strict temperature control to prevent hotspots and coke. Oxygen separation adds to costs. Successful ODHP implementation hinges on suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's presence, which inhibits coke formation. Oxygen is a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, but unselective combustion reactions limit alkene selectivities. Oxygen's use can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, with increasing conversion, selectivity losses occur due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, impacting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further impacted by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, faces thermodynamic constraints requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but necessitate a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized alternative that could be more energy-efficient. However, it faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection; oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation, managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights production challenges, which ODHP addresses by offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is promising for CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product production. However, using oxygen presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene oxidizes more easily than propane, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with selectivity maintenance and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, raises safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains unfulfilled due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally impactful. ODHP offers a more efficient and economical solution, potentially reducing emissions and byproducts. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits by saving energy and promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen's use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity, despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation (Quotes 2, 5, 6). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity (Quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP mitigates overoxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low yields and thermodynamic constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a promising soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing greenhouse gas and facilitating coke removal. CO2 shifts the PDH equilibrium, enhancing propylene yield through a two-step pathway or direct oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, O2 use can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, a safer and milder oxidant, addresses these issues, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints, leading to rapid catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers an exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can result in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route, potentially cleaner. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges, with ODHP offering an alternative. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass and boosts propane conversion at high temperatures. However, propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed, illustrating both the advantages and limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy demands. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges such as side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and improve ODH activity and selectivity. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this limitation, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but faces limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to over-oxidation, forming CO and CO2, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's rise in low-cost ethene production widened the propylene supply-demand gap, spurring interest in ODHP. ODHP boasts thermodynamic advantages, such as exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. Yet, it must tackle the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions, risking over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is counterbalanced by these risks. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields as by-products, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. The growing polypropylene market increases the demand for on-purpose propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency of expensive I2. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. The process necessitates catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, potentially compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas by-products, but using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity with increased conversion and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, especially oxygen use, impacts safety and process stability, affecting ODHP's commercial viability. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously remains elusive, hindering the method's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions and byproducts. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes leading to high-energy input, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependency on depleting oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more economical solution with potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer from overoxidation, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high temperatures and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but risks overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide, decreasing selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it preferable over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP mitigates these issues by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, including catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and unfavorable thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation (Olah and Molnar, 2003). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces the challenge of propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation (Xu et al., 2006). Carbon dioxide (CO2) is emerging as a soft oxidant alternative, beneficial for utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke (Bartholomew, 1984). Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, favoring propylene production, but rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction remains an issue (Zheng et al., 2005; Zhang et al., 2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these problems, enhancing safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges meeting demand and is constrained by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene with improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and emits greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route, with oxidant choice impacting product selectivity and catalyst stability. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation, while N2O improves selectivity but may lower activity and increase costs. ODHP balances energy efficiency, emissions reduction, and oxidant complexities, presenting a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP seeks to resolve. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propane conversion by boosting selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient on-purpose methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring temperatures over 973 K for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures through hydrogen oxidation and heat release. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxides production, and boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 in the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these by reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance ODHP activity and selectivity, though none match industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative petroleum processing, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. A proposed solution is the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could potentially turn the process exothermic and benefit catalyst coking, mitigating the over-oxidation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Oxygen's reactivity necessitates careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air increases costs. Precise oxygen dosing is essential to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers a solution with thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen promotes selectivity for propene but also leads to unselective combustion, limiting alkene selectivities. Over-oxidation to carbon oxides and the need for controlled conditions to prevent explosions are limitations. Oxygen's effectiveness in boosting propylene yields is offset by selectivity losses with increasing conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation. Adding H2S to the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields and selectivity, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially increase propylene yields, but is constrained by the consecutive oxidation of propylene, limiting yields to around 30%. Selecting the right oxidant is crucial; F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly with oxidant selection; oxygen use can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Effective catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction for safety. Selectivity control is more challenging in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, prompting interest in dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP. This method boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization and by-product generation as benefits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges, underscoring the need for careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation tendency and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar issues. Oxidant choice is critical, with oxygen posing safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's elusive goal and unrealized commercial potential underscore these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which leads to propane over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependency on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion process. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, can lower reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, highlighting the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that promote side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic but struggles with propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant offers an alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and enhancing propylene yield by shifting PDH equilibrium. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, struggle with growing demand and face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene with improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance is critical for the economic viability of alkane-based processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP presents a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxygen as an oxidant boosting yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy for oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and incur higher costs. The oxidant choice is pivotal, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions are addressed by ODHP, which offers high-temperature selectivity with SO2 as an oxidant. SO2 enhances propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's dual nature of advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. DDP is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing reaction heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate reactions, potentially overcoming endothermic issues and coke formation (Quote 2). Oxygen, however, risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, complicating reaction control (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation, enhancing selectivity and conversion (Quotes 4-5). Yet, no system matches current industrial yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, ODHP's limitations include issues with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can lead to deep oxidation reactions, forming CO and CO2, and reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating controlled reaction conditions to prevent runaway reactions and increasing process costs due to separation from air and precise dosing requirements.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, with advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, though it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to hotspots and potential catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, increases propene selectivity and yields but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. Selectivity losses occur with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggles with low selectivity and yields as by-products, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and centralized plant requirements, limiting their efficiency and applicability. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but it faces challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights challenges in current production methods, making dedicated processes like ODHP increasingly significant. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization as a key feature. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces similar challenges, with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, introducing safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally problematic. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP amplifies its environmental benefits. However, oxygen as an oxidant poses a risk of over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, leading to overoxidation and reduced efficiency. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen can cause overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides, affecting reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an alternative, using propane as a cost-effective feedstock with potentially higher conversion efficiency. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may not provide sufficient heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation issues. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. CO2 as an oxidant mitigates these issues by preventing deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and enhancing propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP enables lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, highlighting the process's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations, making propane dehydrogenation (PDH) a viable alternative. Direct dehydrogenation is thermodynamically unfavorable, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is an attractive alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction. Chromium and gallium-based catalysts show high activity and selectivity in CO2PDH.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, but CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder alternative, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    