Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges meeting demand, especially in Western Europe, and is constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, aligning with market needs. As an exothermal process, ODHP boosts energy efficiency over endothermal methods. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, potentially more efficient route. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation and requires costly oxygen separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental issues. Oxidant choice significantly affects reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation are addressed by ODHP, which uses SO2 as an oxidant. This method notably increases selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 addition enhances propane conversion but at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Q1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with an added oxidant overcomes these (Q2). Oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway (Q3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation (Q4-5). However, no system matches current industrial efficiency (Q6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative methods, faces challenges that oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address. ODHP offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, but using oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but using oxygen as an oxidant can reduce selectivity to propylene due to deep oxidation reactions, leading to CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating controlled conditions and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, impacting costs and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient process with higher selectivity, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation and complicate temperature control, necessitating advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed boosts propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use in ODHP increases propylene yields but introduces risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation, leading to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low capital investment, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency of expensive I2. Bromine is more feasible but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions while minimizing over-oxidation and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which ODHP addresses by offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is promising for chemical CO2 utilisation, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific, less documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues by potentially offering higher conversion and selectivity, but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and efficient conversion but struggles with oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes reactions exothermic but risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks heat, potentially increasing coke and affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like endothermic reactions and coke formation. ODHP using molecular oxygen mitigates these issues by enabling lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles with low yields and equilibrium limitations, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low conversion rates and yields, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. CO2 shifts the PDH equilibrium, enhancing propylene production through direct oxidation or hydrogen consumption. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges meeting demand, especially in Western Europe, and is constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 production. New technologies must focus on catalyst performance and innovative process designs to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP presents a more direct route with lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. Nitrous oxide, while potentially more costly and environmentally impactful, improves selectivity and reduces deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP overcomes using SO2 as an oxidant, boosting selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 addition increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat from the reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which can cause over-oxidation. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, which can over-oxidize paraffins and olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient propane-to-propylene conversion. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, requiring diluents and controlled conditions, increasing costs due to air separation and necessitating precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to hotspots and potential catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are vital for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use and coke formation. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, it leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address these issues by offering higher propylene yields, yet is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers a more feasible option but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP boosts propane conversion and propene yield over non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing CO2 utilisation. Yet, oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP remain underexplored, indicating a limitation in the method's development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, shares these issues, particularly with oxidant selection, where oxygen poses safety concerns, hindering its commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use presents over-oxidation risks, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous for its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures and catalyst costs, leading to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation [2,5,6]. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature [7]. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion [8], addressing key limitations of current methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds output from conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not equilibrium-limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke through the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Active oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, but rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits their use.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it preferable.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges including growing demand, thermodynamic constraints, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns. ODHP's potential lies in its process simplicity and energy efficiency, making it a promising alternative despite oxidant-related challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide enhances propene selectivity, reducing deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations are addressed by ODHP, which, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed. The text doesn't discuss challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating alternative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates these issues by lowering operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, reduces reliance on high temperatures (Quote 2). Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are explored to control complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields (Quotes 4-6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route to propylene but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen's use necessitates diluents, controlled conditions, and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, increasing costs and complexity.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, it has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature needs. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation is a promising alternative due to its high selectivity and lower costs, but requires high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields, yet it's limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but needs a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large plants, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. A key challenge is developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods underscore ODHP's potential. This process boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization addressing environmental concerns. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher reactivity leading to selectivity decline. Propane cracking increases at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, highlighting the elusive goal of combining high propane conversion and high propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, notably steam cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally problematic. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP amplifies its environmental benefits. However, oxygen use can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer from overoxidation, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. ODHP can lower temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant allows for these benefits but also presents the challenge of maintaining propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, a key chemical in various industries, outstrips the capacity of traditional production methods like catalytic and steam cracking, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process not bound by thermodynamic limitations, offers an alternative but faces the challenge of propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, presents environmental benefits and acts as a coke remover, enhancing propylene production by shifting the reaction equilibrium. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a hurdle in PDH with CO2.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces ethylene, especially in Western Europe, highlighting issues with current production methods like steam cracking and FCC. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking limit its efficiency. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product, presenting a trade-off between efficiency and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, suffer from high energy consumption and significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene, potentially reducing these environmental impacts. However, ODHP has its own challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation risks, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant choice critically influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a key advantage. However, while SO2 increases propane conversion, it results in lower propylene selectivities than with pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacities, highlighting the need for alternative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this issue by reducing operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, while also minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially avoiding endothermic issues and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, help suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though current yields lag behind industrial methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could mitigate over-oxidation, turn the process exothermic, and potentially reduce catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a potential oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air increases costs. Precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas's low-cost ethene, drives interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an alternative to non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and requires strict temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but restricts alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Careful control is necessary to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and requires large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods, like steam cracking, underscore the need for alternatives. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, making it attractive. Utilizing CO2 in ODHP is beneficial for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents significant, less-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, struggles with similar challenges, especially propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection in ODHP introduces safety concerns, hindering commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy demands, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, improving selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen which can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2. Oxidant choice is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic constraints, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP presents propane as a cost-effective feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, while safer, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but faces issues with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant mitigates these by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces issues like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, needing a selective catalyst. (Ref: [1], [2])", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds production from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, which foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limitations, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) acts as a soft oxidant, enhancing PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect involves hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, particularly those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP mitigates these by lowering energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and bypassing thermodynamic constraints. Yet, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly resolves these issues, enhancing process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking [1,2]. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene from propane, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution issues. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP targets equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering enhanced selectivity at high temperatures with SO2 as an oxidant. This is advantageous over conventional methods. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, necessitating temperatures above 973 K for significant yields [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction [3]. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production [5].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to lower reaction temperatures, mitigating these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, complicating reaction control (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation (Quotes 4-5). Despite advancements, no system has yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons increases safety risks and costs due to separation from air and precise dosing requirements to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a supply-demand gap for propylene, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and rely on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, a favored oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is essential to avoid explosive mixtures. Adding H2S to the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and inhibiting over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking suffers from low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but faces challenges with propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still requires optimization to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process, but faces challenges in oxidant selection, notably with oxygen causing side reactions that affect propylene yield and selectivity. Effective catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for efficient production methods, making ODHP a promising alternative. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes, with the added benefit of CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges that are under-documented, affecting the process's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to decline with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, introduces safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, offering an advantage. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the reaction exothermic but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures, thanks to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing some of ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also presents selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and avoids thermodynamic limitations, but over-oxidation is a hurdle. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2 and aiding coke removal, shifting the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic barriers. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, offering an advantageous alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production methods like steam cracking and FCC struggle with growing demand, especially in regions favoring ethylene. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs are needed to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and significant greenhouse gas emissions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially cleaner and more direct route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating alternative methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy needs, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion, though none match current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's selectivity to olefins is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, which can over-oxidize paraffins and olefins to carbon oxides. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, direct route to propylene. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation and increasing costs due to oxygen separation from air.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a propylene supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP benefits include exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability by preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges, with ODHP offering a more efficient and selective process. Oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP is advantageous due to its abundance and cost-effectiveness, but risks overoxidation and requires strict temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Managing these risks is crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke buildup. Oxygen, a favored oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is essential to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosions. H2S in the feedstock improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's unselective combustion reactions lead to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking struggles with low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but faces challenges with propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting efficiency. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, necessitates a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but it has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, reducing propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, leading to the exploration of propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, as a promising alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP facilitates chemical CO2 utilisation, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while aiming to improve these, struggles with selectivity decline as conversion increases. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP raises safety concerns, impacting commercialization potential, as highlighted by the elusive goal of combining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and byproduct formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances efficiency and selectivity, unlike oxygen, which risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependency on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more economical and potentially efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene overoxidation, which reduces selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds production by conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation has low conversion and yield due to thermodynamic limitations. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers advantages by utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation, promoting PDH through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. However, catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction limits its effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP mitigates these by lowering energy consumption, avoiding catalyst regeneration, and bypassing thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, more available solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder alkane conversion [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, better aligning with market needs and offering improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity for alkane conversion and selectivity to desired products, is critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity but may lower activity and has higher costs. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations are addressed by ODHP, which notably increases propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures when using SO2 as an oxidant, though propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed. The text does not discuss challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature requirements for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and minimizes carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming these limitations. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, mitigate these issues by suppressing complete oxidation and enhancing selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system matches the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, aligning with the need for high selectivity and conversion in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP is a more efficient method, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, motivating on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers advantages: exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can also cause temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity and yields but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture boosts propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation, yet selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, limiting propene yields to under 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by declining propylene/ethylene ratios due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation requires high temperatures, complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical; F2 and Cl2 are unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues, while I2's slow reaction and high temperature requirement limit its industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction safely is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas by-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve this but shares similar issues. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, adds safety concerns, impacting propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential as it struggles to combine high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane have limitations, including thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, high catalyst costs, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks, leading to the combustion of propane and propylene to carbon monoxide and/or dioxide. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion by participating in the reverse water-gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, as noted in quote [2]. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also presents the limitation of low selectivity, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, including catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Direct dehydrogenation requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions and frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces a selectivity challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is promising for utilizing CO2, removing coke, and shifting the equilibrium favorably. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits its effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant solves these issues, offering a safer and more practical alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its efficiency. ODHP, an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation, making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a viable route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution issues. ODHP provides a more direct and energy-efficient route, with cleaner production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation risk, though it may reduce activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation, but ODHP using SO2 as an oxidant enhances selectivity at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion, yet it decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's unique challenges in ODHP are not elaborated upon.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K, limit its effectiveness. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, and curbs carbon oxide production by preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by over-oxidation when using oxygen, hindering industrial adoption. Recent research suggests using CO2 as a mild oxidant could enhance selectivity, making the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, highlighting ODHP's promise as an evolving alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption challenges. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient alternative but struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, and its separation from air adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in propylene production creates a demand-supply gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as highlighted by Quote 3.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides and hotspots, complicating temperature control. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are countered by these issues, requiring precise temperature control and catalyst development to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. Over-oxidation to carbon oxides decreases propene yields, requiring controlled reaction conditions to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can boost propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, as propene re-adsorbs and oxidizes, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields and selectivity but faces the challenge of propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions lack selectivity, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, needs a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative, but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic nature of the reaction for safety and selectivity control.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, leading to co-product yield compromises. ODHP, particularly using CO2 as an oxidant, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, presenting a promising CO2 utilisation method with syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity at higher conversion rates and managing propane cracking. Oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP raises safety concerns, hindering its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, enhancing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but selecting the right oxidant is crucial. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene's fate, risking overoxidation to CO and CO2, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand due to low yields and high temperatures causing side reactions and frequent catalyst regeneration. PDH is considered but faces equilibrium limitations. ODHP is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity is a challenge. CO2, a soft oxidant, is promising in PDH for utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Yet, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking favoring ethylene, struggles to meet growing propylene demand. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues further hinder production. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. [1] [2] [3] [8] [13]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation risk, but may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. Oxygen's high reactivity can cause rapid catalyst deactivation, necessitating robust and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, significantly boosting propane conversion. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially reducing endothermicity and coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has equaled the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and complexity. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, impacting propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety issues, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions, and oxygen separation from air adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, leveraging thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of propene over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use and low selectivity issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but can limit alkene selectivities and over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC yields low propylene as a by-product. Propane dehydrogenation, though promising, requires high temperatures, complicating propylene separation. ODHP can boost propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and large-scale, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection; using oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, making dedicated processes like ODHP increasingly significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation and by-product production as advantages. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents unique, under-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include declining selectivity with increased conversion and propane cracking at high temperatures, producing by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces similar issues, especially with propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant raises safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential is hindered by these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC is challenged by high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers potential efficiency but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, lowering propylene selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, a key chemical in various industries, outpaces production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is explored as an alternative, but direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity is hindered by over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is emerging in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect either shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation and the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) in chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a low-energy alternative, eliminating catalyst regeneration and thermodynamic issues. However, oxygen use can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant addresses these problems, making ODHP a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, favor ethylene and face thermodynamic constraints, limiting alkane conversion and causing rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. This is problematic, especially in Western Europe, where propylene demand outpaces ethylene [1]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, aligning with market needs. Its exothermal nature improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [7]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference between feed and product, with CO2 production adding to environmental and economic concerns [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP overcomes equilibrium limitations in propylene production, notably increasing propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures when using SO2 as an oxidant, though propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperature requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, as per quote 3. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, as stated in quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) counters these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly those with high thermal stability and favorable reducibility, are essential for suppressing complete oxidation and maintaining selectivity and conversion (Quotes 4-5). Despite advancements, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but faces the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient process with higher propylene yields. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation and requires strict temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are advantageous, but managing its effects is critical for successful ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke formation. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. The presence of oxygen can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. Oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields is counterbalanced by risks of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's selectivity promotion for propene is offset by selectivity losses with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields and selectivity but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to I2 recycling inefficiency; bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, restricting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, potentially addressing demand. Using CO2 in ODHP is promising for CO2 utilisation, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these issues but shares similar challenges, particularly with propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant raises safety concerns. Achieving high conversion and selectivity remains elusive, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy use, costs, and environmental impact. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, using O2 risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation have limitations: high energy requirements due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion but has limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a lower reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, but it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP reduces coke but also causes low propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation has low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high-temperature side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not equilibrium-limited, but over-oxidation affects propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing greenhouse gas, removing coke, and favorably shifting the reaction equilibrium. However, catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by lowering energy consumption, avoiding catalyst regeneration, and bypassing thermodynamic limits. Yet, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly solves these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production, especially in Western Europe, due to dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. However, it has its own challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields due to direct propane conversion but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, albeit with lower activity and higher production costs, and environmental concerns due to its greenhouse gas properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, offering an advantage. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements for significant yields are addressed by ODHP. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in ODHP alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to solve these by reducing endothermicity and coke formation. Oxygen, however, risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion, though current yields fall short of industrial standards.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP is a more energy-efficient alternative but has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is necessary to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's demand-supply gap, exacerbated by increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, highlights the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, offers advantages over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption and low selectivity, relying on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and a declining propylene/ethylene ratio, exacerbated by ethane preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are required to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation as a promising method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, raises safety concerns and process issues, hindering ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process with improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs and emissions while promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply shortage due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids these thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the reaction exothermic but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but doesn't provide enough heat, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles with low yields and equilibrium limitations, necessitating high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic alternative, but faces challenges in propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, enhancing propylene production in a two-step pathway and utilizing CO2 as a greenhouse gas. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction limits its effectiveness, as seen in the drastic deactivation of Ga2O3 and chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy costs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits are addressed by ODHP, which offers lower energy use and avoids these constraints. However, O2 in ODHP poses flammability and over-oxidation risks, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    