Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking favoring ethylene, struggles to meet the growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency. ODHP directly addresses these by offering a more exothermic, energy-efficient process. However, oxygen use in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges. Innovative catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for performance enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, with oxygen increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. N2O as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions are addressed by ODHP, offering higher selectivity per pass, especially with SO2 as an oxidant at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizes carbon oxides production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic issues and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity (Quote 5). Despite advancements, no catalytic system matches the yields of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand is rising, but current production methods are costly and unsustainable. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking faces challenges like high energy consumption and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, ODHP's limitations, especially in oxidant selection, are significant. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to abundant low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, addressing limitations of non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive, lacks selectivity, and depends on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though inexpensive and plentiful, risks overoxidation, creating unwanted carbon oxides, and causes temperature control issues due to hotspots, potentially deactivating the catalyst. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are vital for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is counterbalanced by risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, faces thermodynamic limitations requiring high temperatures, complicating product separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still needs a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, with oxygen causing side reactions that limit propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. Selectivity control is challenging due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, prompting interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilization as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but shares similar issues, notably selectivity decline and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, adds safety and process concerns, impacting commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy costs, environmental impacts, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective, and potentially cost-effective alternative. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits by saving energy and promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy demands and low propylene selectivity. ODHP offers an alternative using propane as a feedstock, potentially more efficient. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and coke-induced deactivation. ODHP, while reducing reaction temperatures, struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. CO2, as an oxidant, prevents deep oxidation, minimizes coke, and boosts propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that promote side reactions and require catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a soft oxidant that utilizes greenhouse gas and aids in coke removal, shifting PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, especially those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant solves these issues, offering a safer, milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with growing demand and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, and CO2 production adds environmental and economic concerns. New technologies are needed to address the disadvantages of dehydrogenation, and ODHP presents an exothermal process that is more energy-efficient. Yet, the use of oxygen as an oxidant poses challenges, including higher energy losses and CO2 by-product, affecting economic and environmental aspects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, improving selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperatures needed for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges such as side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and coke formation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to overcome these by reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, mitigate overoxidation with high thermal stability and reducibility. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative petroleum processing, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP is more energy-efficient but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, improving efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it faces challenges, notably with oxidant selection; oxygen can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Despite oxygen's effectiveness, selectivity losses occur with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, leading to yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene as a by-product, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but faces challenges with propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yield to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but still struggle with polyhalogenation selectivity, affecting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas reserve use. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative but faces limitations, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen can trigger side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane complicate selectivity control in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, potentially compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 as an oxidant presenting a promising CO2 utilisation method and syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidizability and increased propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, especially oxygen use, adds safety concerns, affecting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, it faces limitations in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene's fate due to overoxidation risks, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, addresses these by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations in direct dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not equilibrium-limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is promising for utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction by consuming hydrogen or directly oxidizing propane. Oxide catalysts, especially those containing Cr or Ga, are active but face rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these issues, as it is milder and more readily available.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene is favored. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and process design are needed to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene. Using oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for oxygen separation. N2O improves propene selectivity, reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice impacts product selectivity and catalyst stability, with N2O showing potential for higher propylene selectivity and lower catalyst deactivation rates than oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP overcomes equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering an advantage, especially at high temperatures where SO2 as an oxidant enhances selectivity. However, adding SO2 to the feed increases propane conversion at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring excessive temperatures for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates these issues by lowering operating temperatures, enhancing propane conversion through H2 consumption, and minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations such as endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet (Quotes 4-6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these concerns. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly with oxygen as an oxidant leading to over-oxidation and reduced selectivity to olefins, are significant. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate over-oxidation, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance, as reported in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, increasing costs for oxygen separation from air and requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a demand-supply gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. A key challenge is preventing over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity, but using oxygen can cause overoxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can lead to temperature control issues, reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, increases propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions, with selectivity losses at higher conversions due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's consecutive oxidation to oxygenated products, with a reported maximum yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to recycling efficiency of expensive I2; bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting its use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Challenges include the need for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction for safety. Propane's weaker bonds make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which ODHP addresses by offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, adding safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy consumption and costs. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, vital for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges due to supply deficits and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are energy-intensive and prone to catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing some of these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation suffers from low yields and equilibrium constraints, necessitating high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke buildup. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and avoids thermodynamic limits, yet struggles with over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, presents an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and addressing coke via the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in CO2PDH but encounter rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as evidenced by research (Heinritz-Adrian et al., 2008; Xu et al., 2006; Michorczyk et al., 2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles with growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and faces thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP presents an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative, directly producing propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, posing environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires costly separation. N2O boosts propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher production costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP targets equilibrium limitations in propylene production, using SO2 as an oxidant to enhance selectivity and propane conversion, especially at high temperatures. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane, illustrating a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, but oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control oxidation and boost ODH efficiency and selectivity, though none have yet matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP is a more efficient method but using oxygen as an oxidant risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, boasting thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability. However, a key challenge is preventing propene's over-oxidation to more stable CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by offering a more efficient and selective process. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and undesired byproducts, requiring precise temperature control and catalyst development to prevent catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's use also entails costly separation from air. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and energy use. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP enhances propylene yields, yet presents risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's selectivity promotion for propene is counterbalanced by unselective combustion reactions, causing selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by a shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially boost propylene yields, yet remains capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation into oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine, while more feasible, still grapples with polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative, but faces challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to manage over-oxidation and prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges, prompting interest in dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP. This method boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges that are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to decline. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP, while aiming to improve conversion and selectivity, shares these challenges, notably in oxidant selection, where oxygen use raises safety concerns, impacting its commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high environmental impact and byproduct generation. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant offering reduced costs and emissions compared to traditional methods. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits and limitations in methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations but encounters issues with oxygen use, leading to overoxidation and inefficiency. Despite progress with redox-active catalysts, oxygen can cause olefins to overoxidize into carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and depend on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers higher efficiency and lower costs. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, potentially increasing coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP can reduce temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, offering advantages over O2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers advantages by enabling lower reaction temperatures and inhibiting coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has a limitation of low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles to meet demand due to limitations in conventional methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic, non-equilibrium limited process that addresses these issues but faces selectivity challenges due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and removing coke, shifting the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, catalysts face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant is safer and resolves these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges meeting demand due to thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. This highlights the need for new technologies that address these limitations while leveraging ODHP's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances conversion at high temperatures and improves selectivity per pass. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed. The text does not discuss challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues, offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative petroleum processing, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, increasing costs from air separation and requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a propylene supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and coke prevention, enhances catalyst stability. Yet, it must tackle over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependency on dwindling petroleum. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, risking combustion of desirable products and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Successful ODHP implementation hinges on suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation. The addition of H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, requires high temperatures, complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but faces limitations due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while feasible, needs a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, using oxygen can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The challenge in ODHP is controlling selectivity due to propane's weaker bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, making it a promising alternative. It addresses environmental concerns by utilizing CO2, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges requiring further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve this but struggles with selectivity and propane cracking. Oxygen selection in ODHP introduces safety concerns, emphasizing the need for careful oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits, while oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces supply deficits and dehydrogenation challenges, including thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic process, overcoming thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and economic strain. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and efficient conversion, but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, lacks sufficient heat and can cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, as per quote 2 and 6. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, as mentioned in quote 7. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen, as suggested in quote 8, can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. This method presents an attractive alternative, balancing benefits and limitations in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation suffers from low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, particularly those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, ODHP faces issues with flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly resolves these problems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges meeting demand, especially in Western Europe, due to thermodynamic constraints and coking that limit conversion and catalyst life [2]. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a more direct and potentially cleaner route, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may have lower activity and higher costs, with environmental concerns. Oxidant selection is crucial, balancing yield, reaction pathway, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion but resulting in lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating new economic methods. DDP is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for yield. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering temperatures and enhancing propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology with advantages: exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability by preventing coke deposition. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy use and low selectivity, while ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly with oxidant choice; oxygen can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, necessitating precise control to prevent catalyst deactivation and coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feedstock boosts propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, affecting propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal; F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more viable option, but polyhalogenation selectivity issues demand a higher propane to bromine ratio, constraining conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions while preventing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is essential to avoid overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, prompting exploration of alternatives. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2-based ODHP showing promise for chemical CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production involve achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, hindered by propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve these aspects but faces similar issues, notably with propylene's reactivity. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, adds safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential is yet to be realized due to these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental concerns. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits and thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, leading to high energy demands and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP presents an economical propane feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't fully address the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke formation and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but struggles with selectivity due to overoxidation. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing limitations of current methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, but has low propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and thermodynamic constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces the challenge of propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, addressing the challenges in propylene production and the potential of ODHP as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation is constrained by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers an exothermal, energy-efficient route to propylene, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, emits greenhouse gases, and produces dilutive co-products. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner route, potentially reducing emissions and co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation but may have lower activity and higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass, particularly at high temperatures, though it reduces propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address the challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation from coke. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, but oxygen can cause overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, help control overoxidation and improve selectivity, though current yields fall short of industrial standards.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's potential is limited by the choice of oxidant; oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, reducing olefin selectivity. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas's low-cost ethene, drives interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, could surpass non-oxidative methods. Yet, it must tackle the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a significant scientific obstacle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it has limitations, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, complicating temperature control and potentially causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP offers lower temperature operation, reducing coke formation, but faces limitations in oxidant choice. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to yields below 30%. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient process. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Selectivity control in ODHP is crucial to manage exothermic reactions safely and suppress over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, leading to interest in alternatives like ODHP. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing environmental concerns with CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents unique, under-documented challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing various by-products. ODHP presents potential advantages in increasing conversion and selectivity but must overcome the same challenges. The elusive goal of combining high propane conversion and high propylene selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation highlights the method's unfulfilled commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process, especially when using CO2 as an oxidant, which further cuts costs, emissions, and energy use. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these issues by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a favorable alternative to oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation and reduce coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, reduces coke formation and operates at lower temperatures but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds conventional production, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a solution, albeit with low conversion and yield issues due to thermodynamic constraints and high-temperature side reactions (Olah and Molnar, 2003). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, yet struggles with propylene selectivity (Xu et al., 2006). Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers CO2 utilization and coke mitigation (Zangeneh et al., 2011). Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction (Michorczyk et al., 2011; Zhang et al., 2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer soft oxidant, effectively mitigates these problems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, highlights the limitations of current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP presents an exothermic, energy-efficient alternative to endothermal dehydrogenation, but using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies must focus on catalyst performance and innovative process designs to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP targets equilibrium limitations in propylene production, using SO2 as an oxidant to boost selectivity per pass and propane conversion at high temperatures. However, propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed. The text does not discuss challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant presents an alternative, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate reactions, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway. Catalysts are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complexity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can reduce propylene selectivity due to deep oxidation and poses safety risks, increasing costs with oxygen separation from air and requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas's low-cost ethene. ODHP offers an alternative, with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, addressing non-oxidative methods' limitations. However, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and rely on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, leading to undesired carbon oxides and temperature control issues due to hotspots, which can deactivate the catalyst. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent these problems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, are challenged by high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and decreasing propene yields. Oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields is counterbalanced by the need for careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and extensive selectivity losses with increasing conversion, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising for its high selectivity and low capital investment, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but faces the challenge of propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yield to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection, as oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. Propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane exacerbate selectivity control issues in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for efficient production methods, making ODHP a promising alternative. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes, with the added benefit of CO2 utilisation for syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, especially using oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, safer but struggling to offset dehydrogenation's endothermic nature, can lead to additional coke and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges due to high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation from coke formation (quotes 2, 6). Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures, as it is exothermic. However, this method risks overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide, affecting propylene selectivity (quote 7). The choice of oxidant is critical, with CO2 being a better option than oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation and reduce coke formation (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP addresses some issues but introduces others, highlighting the complex role of oxidants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, struggles to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces challenges with low conversion and yields, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a concern due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, presents a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. The promoting effect of CO2 shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 experiences rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as reported by Zheng et al. (2005) and Zhang et al. (2011).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, O2 use can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these issues, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges meeting demand and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal, energy-efficient route to propylene, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP leads to higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP presents a cleaner, more energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may reduce activity and has higher production costs. The choice of oxidant significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures, increasing propane conversion but at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production, unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, overcomes these by avoiding high temperatures. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity, requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation and adding to costs with air separation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a demand-supply gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, could boost efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must tackle the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP is a more energy-efficient method with higher propylene selectivity. However, it struggles with oxidant selection; oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially leading to over-oxidation and decreased propene yields. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feedstock can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's benefits, it presents challenges such as extensive selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further impacted by the shift to ethane feedstock, which reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers a more feasible option but necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, restricting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, as oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene highlights challenges in current production methods, making ODHP an attractive alternative. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative dehydrogenation, and its use of CO2 is promising for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges that need further exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to decline with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, especially using oxygen, adds safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial viability. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity remains elusive, hindering ODHP's potential realization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant, reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the oxidant's critical role in process outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are energy-intensive and suffer from catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependency on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion and economic alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, offering an advantage over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP using molecular oxygen addresses these by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles with low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative that bypasses thermodynamic limitations but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as it utilizes greenhouse gases, acts as a coke remover, and shifts the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 is marked by rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges, including growing demand in Western Europe and thermodynamic constraints leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP presents an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental issues. The success of ODHP depends on catalyst performance and innovative process designs, aiming to match or exceed current technologies' yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy needs and emissions. However, it faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, but it may lower activity, has higher costs, and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity and conversion at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion while decreasing propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, necessitating temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these issues, especially the endothermic nature and coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as seen in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP is a more energy-efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires diluents and careful control to prevent runaway reactions, impacting safety and increasing costs due to oxygen separation from air. Precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas widens the propylene supply-demand gap, highlighting the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. Yet, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and necessitates energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can cause temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Its use requires careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions. While oxygen promotes high propylene yields, increased conversion can lead to over-oxidation and selectivity losses, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP offers higher yields but faces the issue of propylene oxidation, limiting yield to 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient process. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while managing over-oxidation and ensuring safety in exothermic reactions are critical. The selectivity control in ODHP is more challenging due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene underscores the need for efficient synthesis processes like ODHP, which boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 as a by-product. However, the full potential and limitations of ODHP, particularly the role of oxygen as an oxidant, remain underexplored, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in balancing high propane conversion with propylene selectivity, as increased conversion leads to declining selectivity. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity at higher temperatures and faces commercialization hurdles, as achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously remains elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing energy consumption and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP amplifies its benefits. However, oxygen can cause over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption and low propylene selectivity. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more economical solution with potentially efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP could lower temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but controlling propylene selectivity is tough due to overoxidation. CO2 as an oxidant can mitigate deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for lower temperatures but affects selectivity, highlighting the oxidant's critical role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production faces challenges due to low yields, equilibrium limitations, and high temperatures causing side reactions and coke formation. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that reduce propylene yield and necessitate frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a promising soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and offering a coke-removing effect. The promoting effect of CO2 can shift the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidize propane to propylene. Cr and Ga-based oxide catalysts show high activity and selectivity in CO2-assisted PDH. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant enhances safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges due to growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by directly producing propylene, aligning with market needs. As an exothermal process, ODHP enhances energy efficiency compared to endothermal methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, albeit with higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, increases selectivity per pass at high temperatures, enhancing propane conversion but at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements hinder significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in ODHP, reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, addresses these issues, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces challenges like overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to mitigate these issues due to their favorable properties (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial technologies (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this limitation, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Precise control is needed to prevent runaway reactions, and oxygen separation from air adds to costs. Careful dosing is essential to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, leading to undesired carbon oxides and temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed, necessitating precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation and decreasing propene yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and selectivity losses with increasing conversion, leading to yields lower than 30%. H2S in the feed mixture can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production through SC and FCC struggles with low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion. ODHP could improve yields but faces a 30% cap due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their applicability. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation is crucial. Managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensuring safety is another challenge. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand underscores the need for dedicated synthesis like ODHP, which boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP, a critical aspect for its adoption, remains underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with selectivity and propane cracking, similar to traditional methods. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, adds safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, offering improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't fully address the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, including FCC and steam cracking, faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) addresses these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, as highlighted in quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. Using oxygen as an oxidant allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, with direct dehydrogenation hindered by low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high-temperature side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, shifts the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizes propane to propylene, utilizing CO2 and aiding in coke removal. Cr and Ga-based catalysts show high activity and selectivity in CO2-assisted PDH, yet rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. However, O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant resolves these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    