Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic limitations and catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. The catalyst's performance, including activity and selectivity, is critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses the equilibrium limitation of dehydrogenation in propylene production. Using SO2 as an oxidant boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, offering an advantage over conventional methods. While SO2 increases propane conversion, it leads to lower propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are not discussed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. It also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are crucial for suppressing complete oxidation and enhancing selectivity and conversion (Quote 5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but it has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation, highlighting the specific challenges associated with its use.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers a solution, with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to hotspots in the catalyst bed, complicating temperature control. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. Over-oxidation to carbon oxides decreases propene yields, and careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for alternative production methods to supplement current techniques, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is promising for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen in ODHP presents challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, is critical but presents safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and energy usage compared to traditional methods, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen as an oxidant decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, which suffer from thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a solution with propane as a cost-effective feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own issues, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a lower reaction temperature but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low conversion and yield due to thermodynamic equilibrium, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and aiding in coke removal. Its promoting effect can be explained by hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also effective with CO2, though PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Yet, oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and effectively mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. This highlights the need for innovative technologies that address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation and energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, yet may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses this by using SO2 as an oxidant, which notably increases selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses these issues by reducing operating temperatures through heat release and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation. Despite progress, no system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, requiring diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation and undesired byproduct formation, highlighting the need for precise temperature control and catalyst development to mitigate these issues. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are advantageous, but its potential to cause overoxidation and temperature control problems must be managed for successful ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions and manage exothermic reactions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet its use presents risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation, leading to selectivity losses and propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, hindering industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large, centralized plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Challenges include needing catalysts to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-addressed in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, is critical but presents safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and energy usage, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to propane over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers an alternative using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own issues, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via traditional methods like FCC and steam cracking faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for a more effective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also effective in CO2PDH, though rapid deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with the growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. This highlights the need for new technologies that address these issues while efficiently producing propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and dilution of propylene yield by co-products. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. However, ODHP's effectiveness is influenced by the choice of oxidant. Oxygen can increase propylene yields due to direct conversion of propane to propylene and CO2, but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant selection in ODHP is critical, balancing higher yields with limitations such as over-oxidation and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity at high temperatures and increases propane conversion, though propylene selectivity is lower than with pure propane feed. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP is not well-documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating alternative techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no system has matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation, highlighting the specific challenges associated with its use.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, as highlighted in quote [1]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a promising on-purpose propene technology, offering thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, as noted in quote [2]. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as mentioned in quote [3].", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid combustion of desirable products. The risk of coke formation can also lead to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields is offset by risks of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements in propylene yields and selectivity but is constrained by propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but still face polyhalogenation selectivity issues, limiting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety are crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane pose a greater selectivity control challenge in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for alternatives to steam and catalytic cracking, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising method for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, yet faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, O2 use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and rapid catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, though not providing enough heat, can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks, but may increase coke deposition and competitively adsorb on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high operating temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic freedom. Yet, O2 can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, as a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking pose significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant leads to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene production with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text doesn't explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complex processes, and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, leading to temperature control issues and potential catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success, balancing oxygen's benefits with its risks.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP enhances propylene yields, yet poses risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity, likely by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, face challenges due to low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene production ratio, while the growing polypropylene market increases propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 reactions, while more feasible, require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge includes finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, prompting interest in dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as a chemical feedstock advantage. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, but faces similar challenges. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, introduces safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains unfulfilled, highlighting the elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, mitigating deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, but faces challenges like low conversion and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an innovative solution by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, though rapid catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, but require managing issues like coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy needs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. Yet, oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, aligning better with market demand. Its exothermal nature improves energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product [13]. Catalyst performance is crucial for economic viability [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face issues of high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene, potentially reducing energy needs and emissions. However, ODHP has its own challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields through direct propane conversion but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, yet it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, offering an advantage over conventional methods. SO2 increases propane conversion, but propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation reactions, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating careful control of reaction conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and potential catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, addressing the limitations of oxygen use.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements but is capped at a 30% yield due to propylene's consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2, though more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and require large plants, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially addressed by ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. ODHP using CO2 can produce syngas, aiding chemical CO2 utilisation. However, literature lacks exploration of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP, presenting a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety and process concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, costs, environmental impacts, and byproduct generation. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially reducing energy consumption and costs while minimizing greenhouse gas emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits. However, oxygen use can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP results in low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect, either by shifting the equilibrium through the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation, is significant. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these problems, making the process safer and more efficient.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene from propane, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and dilution of propylene yield by co-products. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes some limitations, potentially reducing energy needs and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity (Quote 4), though none have matched industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, direct route to propylene. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen's use also increases costs due to separation from air and necessitates precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and potential catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet presents risks like over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene selectivity and is declining due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, requires high temperatures, complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, with a max yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Selectivity control is crucial due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to rapid selectivity decline. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential solutions by potentially enhancing conversion and selectivity, yet faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is key in ODHP for optimal propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but it has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but it risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can mitigate deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation has low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, due to a preference for ethylene production and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion, exacerbated by coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation from air. N2O, while improving propene selectivity and reducing deep oxidation, may result in lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, leveraging SO2 as an oxidant to notably increase selectivity per pass at high temperatures. While SO2 boosts propane conversion, it results in lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to address these issues, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety concerns due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution, boasting exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity for propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, leading to undesired byproducts and hotspots in the catalyst bed, affecting temperature control and potentially causing coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet poses risks of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements in propylene yields and selectivity but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical, with F2 being unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 causing non-selective reactions, and I2 reactions being slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large, centralized plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as a chemical CO2 utilisation strategy, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking yields unwanted by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant choice is critical, with oxygen posing safety and process issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and saves energy compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, endothermicity-induced thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low conversion and yield due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, offering an alternative, but propylene selectivity remains a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction to Cr(III) limits its effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and more available soft oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and faces dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-products that dilute efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene production with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but it risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using SO2 as an oxidant, offers an alternative by significantly increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating new techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers a solution by reducing operating temperatures through heat release during hydrogen oxidation. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 in the reverse water gas shift reaction, while minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are investigated to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, as noted in Quote 3. Quote 2 highlights ODHP's potential for improved efficiency over non-oxidative methods due to exothermic reactions at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and formation of carbon oxides, necessitating precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and potential coke formation. Oxygen separation from air adds to the cost. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures due to oxygen's presence, which inhibits coke formation. Oxygen is a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, but unselective combustion reactions limit alkene selectivities. Oxygen's use can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, with increasing conversion, selectivity losses occur due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically promising, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields, but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it has its own challenges, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. The exothermic nature of the reaction must be managed to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially addressed by ODHP, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene oxidizes more easily than propane, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, yet faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains elusive due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions and byproducts. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits by saving energy and promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen's use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including propane dehydrogenation, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation of active species (Quotes 2, 5, 6). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature (Quote 7). However, ODHP presents challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks (Quote 7). Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant in ODHP can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and unfavorable thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a promising soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing greenhouse gas and facilitating coke removal. CO2's promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, enhancing propylene yield through a two-step pathway or direct oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy needs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, as a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these problems, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with the growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints in dehydrogenation that limit alkane conversion and cause rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to produce propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce catalyst deactivation, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, particularly using SO2 as an oxidant, which enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 addition boosts propane conversion, though propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these limitations (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no catalytic system matches current industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation reactions, forming CO and CO2, reducing selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and hotspots in the catalyst bed, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is counterbalanced by the risk of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges, including low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio, while the growing polypropylene market increases propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, with a reported maximum yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The process requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity with increased conversion and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing emissions and byproducts. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic process, overcoming thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer from overoxidation, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges like high operating temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents the issue of controlling propylene's fate, as it risks overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide, decreasing selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and endothermic, unfavorable thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant alternative, beneficial for utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, favoring propylene production, but rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these problems, enhancing safety and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face thermodynamic and coking challenges. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature compared to endothermal alternatives. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and significant greenhouse gas emissions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting product selectivity and catalyst stability. ODHP presents a promising alternative, balancing energy efficiency, emissions reduction, and the complexities of oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, enhancing propane conversion. However, propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures through hydrogen oxidation and heat release. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 in the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) counters these by initiating reactions with an oxidant, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied for their thermal stability, surface area, and ability to promote ODHP activity and selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air increases process costs. Precise oxygen dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, as highlighted in quote 1. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution, with thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, as noted in quote 2. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as mentioned in quote 3.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and hotspots in the catalyst bed, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to the presence of oxygen. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP promotes selectivity for propene but also leads to unselective combustion reactions, limiting alkene selectivities. The risk of over-oxidation to carbon oxides and the need for controlled reaction conditions to prevent explosive mixtures are significant limitations. Oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields is counterbalanced by selectivity losses with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation. The addition of H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift towards ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is constrained by propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen use can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Effective catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as an attractive feature, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene oxidizes more readily than propane, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, yet faces similar challenges with selectivity decline and propane cracking. Oxidant choice is critical, with oxygen presenting safety issues. The elusive goal of propane oxydehydrogenation and its unrealized commercial potential highlight these ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and saves energy compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to propane over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, catalyst costs, and deactivation. ODHP offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. CO2, as an oxidant, is advantageous in ODHP by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, enhancing propylene yield. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, can mitigate these problems, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with the growing demand for propylene, especially over ethylene, and face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation issues [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal compared to endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance, specifically activity for alkane conversion and selectivity to desired products, is critical for the economic attractiveness of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP is proposed as an alternative, offering increased selectivity per pass at high temperatures with SO2 as an oxidant. While SO2 boosts propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting ODHP's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers a solution by reducing operating temperatures through the release of reaction heat and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no catalytic system matches current industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation reactions, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled reaction conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen's use also increases process cost due to separation from air and requires precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity and yields but also poses risks of over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. Selectivity losses increase with conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, face challenges due to low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large, centralized plants, limiting natural gas utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge with oxygen includes the need for efficient catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as an attractive feature, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy compared to traditional methods. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, leading to overoxidation and reduced efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges due to high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation and spatial separation of active species. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures, thanks to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces new challenges, particularly in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODP enables lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, highlighting the process's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations, making propane dehydrogenation (PDH) a promising alternative. Direct dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically unfavorable, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is an attractive alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction. Catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also effective in CO2PDH, with chromium and gallium showing high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, leading to poor selectivity. Employing carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and more practical alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    