Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces growing demand, especially in Europe, and is constrained by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges. The success of ODHP hinges on catalyst performance and innovative process designs, aiming to match or exceed yields of current technologies while addressing energy and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 to the feed increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not discuss specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production, necessitating new economic methods. DDP's thermodynamic limits and high temperature requirements are addressed by ODHP, which uses CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and unlike O2, minimizes carbon oxides by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation from coke. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to address these by potentially avoiding endothermic issues and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though they haven't yet matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could mitigate over-oxidation, turn the process exothermic, and potentially reduce catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, increasing costs with oxygen separation from air, and requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially improving efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and have low propylene selectivity, relying on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection, with oxygen posing overoxidation risks and requiring energy-intensive separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control due to potential hotspots. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical. Oxygen's affordability and abundance are advantages, but must be balanced against overoxidation and coke formation risks, which can deactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but can over-oxidize it to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed boosts propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. However, oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising for its high propylene selectivity and low capital investment, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially boost propylene yields, but they are capped at about 30% due to the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is crucial; F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, notably steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP presents a solution with higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilization, yielding syngas by-products. However, using oxygen introduces specific challenges not fully addressed in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, introduces safety and process concerns, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective process, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances efficiency and selectivity without over-oxidation risks, unlike O2 which can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2, emphasizing the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of O2 remains a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, promises more efficient conversion but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can lower reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but also results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers potential in PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction is a limitation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, yet deactivation remains a significant issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy costs, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits are addressed by ODHP, which offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and coking in current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP presents an exothermal process that improves energy efficiency, making it a viable alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Despite this, ODHP offers potential for innovation in catalysts and process designs, addressing the limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs and fewer co-products. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly oxygen separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation are addressed by ODHP using SO2 as an oxidant, which significantly increases selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. DDP is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by adding an oxidant, addresses issues of endothermic nature and coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant, however, risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH selectivity and conversion, though none have matched current industrial olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to over-oxidation, reducing propylene yield and increasing costs due to separation from air. Precise dosing is essential to prevent deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's impact on propylene production creates a supply-demand gap, highlighting the need for on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP, with its favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an alternative to non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are offset by these limitations, highlighting the need for advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with coke formation. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, reduces coke and promotes propene selectivity due to oxygen's presence. However, oxygen can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve propylene yields but faces a cap around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, still struggle with polyhalogenation selectivity, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and large-scale, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges, prompting interest in dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP. This method boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique challenges not well-explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity to oxidation, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking produces various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures. Oxidant selection, especially oxygen use, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, highlighting the elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, notably steam cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, costs, environmental impact, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, offering enhanced selectivity. Utilizing CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, using oxygen can lead to propane over-oxidation to CO2, diminishing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependency on depleting oil reserves. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, yet it has its own set of challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to insufficient heat, additional coke deposition, and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke. ODHP can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke, and promote propane conversion, addressing key issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for an improved catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Demand for propylene exceeds output from conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation's low yields and equilibrium constraints, coupled with high-temperature side reactions, necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limitations but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2 and reducing coke formation, yet catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction remains a hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and propane dehydrogenation faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but carbon dioxide, a safer and more available soft oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to a preference for ethylene and dehydrogenation limitations [1,2]. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more efficient and cleaner route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for oxygen separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant alters the pathway, reducing operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which promotes over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, but oxygen can cause overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, like vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress complete oxidation and improve selectivity and conversion, yet none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route to propylene, but it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, necessitating diluents and careful control to prevent runaway reactions, which increases costs and safety concerns. Oxygen separation from air adds expense, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap motivates on-purpose technologies like ODHP, which offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially improving efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are vital for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption and coke formation. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, reduces coke formation but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially leading to over-oxidation and decreased propene yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed improves propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use results in selectivity losses with increasing conversion, affecting propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but faces a yield cap at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions lack selectivity, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still grapples with polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting its use in remote areas. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Selectivity control is challenging due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while managing the exothermic reaction for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene highlights challenges in current production methods, making alternatives like ODHP increasingly significant. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization as a by-product, making it an attractive CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP, while aiming to improve conversion and selectivity, struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity. Oxygen as an oxidant introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy consumption, and environmental concerns. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective, and potentially cost-effective alternative. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances efficiency and selectivity without over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands and low propylene selectivity, exacerbated by reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but less effective, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures and catalyst deactivation, as noted in quote [2]. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces these by being exothermic, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation, as mentioned in quote [7]. Using CO2 as an oxidant, as suggested in quote [8], avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, underscoring the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, a key industrial raw material, outpaces production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, highlighting the need for alternatives. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is promising but faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic process not limited by thermodynamics, yet propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and potentially mitigating coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 involves rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation and participating in direct propane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy costs, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant is safer, milder, and more available, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles with growing demand, thermodynamic constraints, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers an exothermal, energy-efficient route to propylene, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, balancing production needs with environmental and economic factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route with fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical, balancing yield, selectivity, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to address. SO2, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, an advantage over traditional methods. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are acknowledged but not elaborated upon.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, but oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to enhance selectivity and conversion, though they haven't yet matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more efficient and direct route to propylene, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates diluents and careful control to prevent runaway reactions, increasing process costs and requiring precise oxygen dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Successful ODHP implementation requires suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity and yields but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, necessitating careful management to prevent explosions. H2S addition improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, mitigating selectivity losses at higher conversions.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low yields and selectivity, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP aims to enhance propylene yields and selectivity but faces the challenge of propylene oxidation to oxygenated products, limiting yields to 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal, with F2 unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 causing non-selective reactions, I2 reactions being slow and favorable only at high temperatures, and Br2 requiring a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights challenges in current production methods, making propane dehydrogenation processes like ODHP more appealing. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization as a by-product, making it a promising chemical CO2 utilization method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges that are less explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with similar issues. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, adds safety concerns, and propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains unfulfilled, highlighting the difficulty in combining high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes requiring high energy input, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges like high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but it has limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but it risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance. These oxidants are critical in ODHP's potential as an alternative propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but faces selectivity issues due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, highlighting the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limitations but struggles with over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation through the reverse water-gas shift reaction. Oxide catalysts, particularly Cr and Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, though rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant makes the process safer and more efficient, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges, including ethylene preference and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking. ODHP, an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency but using oxygen increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 by-product. Innovative catalysts and process designs are crucial for optimizing performance and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields by directly converting propane but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity, has higher production costs, and raises environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations are addressed by ODHP, which uses SO2 as an oxidant to boost selectivity per pass at high temperatures, an advantage over conventional methods. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the cost of lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are not discussed, indicating a gap in the current analysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy demands, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing reaction heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, but oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none match current industrial olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity as an exothermic alternative. However, ODHP struggles with selectivity issues due to the use of oxygen as an oxidant, which can over-oxidize paraffins and olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, addressing ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and by-product issues. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's impact on low-cost ethene production has widened the propylene demand-supply gap, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP boasts thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods, preventing coke deposition. However, a major hurdle is avoiding the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, reducing propylene yield and complicating temperature control due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is vital to prevent catalyst deactivation by coke. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to yields below 30%. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to further oxidation of propylene. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The process necessitates catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP presents a solution with higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product generation. However, using oxygen introduces unexplored challenges in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, leading to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing unwanted by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly using oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues, with reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, enhancing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen decreases propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing to CO2. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity, despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and depend on depleting oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion and economic benefits. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks. CO2, as an alternative oxidant, can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst to enhance yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production faces challenges due to low yields, equilibrium limitations, and high temperatures causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic, non-thermodynamically limited alternative, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a promising soft oxidant for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), utilizing greenhouse gas and serving as a coke remover. Its promoting effect either shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, highlighting its potential despite catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder, and more accessible solution, addressing these issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges in meeting demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP presents an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative for direct propylene production. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, and the production of CO2 adds environmental and economic concerns. Innovative catalysts and process designs are needed to optimize ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution issues. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), especially using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating both advantages and limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, necessitating more efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 as an oxidant prevents over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by introducing an oxidant, addresses these issues, potentially overcoming limitations. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) emerges as a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest that using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance, addressing the limitations of oxygen use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally via steam cracking, faces challenges like high energy consumption. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen. Oxygen can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating controlled conditions and diluents. Oxygen separation from air adds cost, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can also cause temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence, which enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. Oxygen can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking struggles with low selectivity and yields. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is constrained by the consecutive oxidation of propylene, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and thermodynamic issues, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, affecting industrial application. Bromine offers a more feasible option, but resolving polyhalogenation selectivity requires a higher propane to bromine ratio, impacting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their applicability. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for managing the exothermic nature of the reaction and suppressing over-oxidation to ensure safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, potentially compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 as an oxidant presenting a promising CO2 utilisation method and syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces specific challenges not well-documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve these aspects but struggles with selectivity maintenance and propane cracking management. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, adds safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions compared to steam cracking. Oxygen, however, leads to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers efficiency and economic benefits. However, oxidant choice is critical: oxygen can lower reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but it doesn't provide sufficient heat for dehydrogenation and can lead to increased coke formation and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation, as noted in quote [2]. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, as mentioned in quote [7]. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen, as suggested in quote [8], can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation has low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, offering an attractive alternative, though propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising in PDH, utilizing CO2 and aiding coke removal. The promoting effect of CO2 shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation, enhancing the process. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly addresses these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations of current methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP presents a direct route for propylene production from propane, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production. Despite these challenges, ODHP remains a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of current methods while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion but at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The literature overlooks the challenges of using oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, necessitating temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by altering the dehydrogenation pathway and increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, aims to address these issues (Quote 2). However, using oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion (Quotes 4-5). Despite advancements, no catalytic system has matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking. Despite reported yields of up to 40% in propene, industrial implementation of ODHP remains limited due to concerns over catalyst lifetime and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause deep oxidation, reducing selectivity and posing safety risks. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is essential to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas's low-cost ethene, highlights the need for on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the over-oxidation challenge to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, complicating temperature control and potentially deactivating catalysts. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are vital for successful ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's ability to inhibit coke formation. Oxygen as an oxidant enhances selectivity for propene but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. Adding H2S to the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and mitigating over-oxidation, yet selectivity decreases with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, limiting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low yields and selectivity, further complicated by the shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically attractive, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address these issues by offering higher propylene yields, yet faces limitations due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, with a maximum yield of about 30%. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large centralized plants, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene strains current production methods, affecting co-product yields. ODHP presents higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces specific issues, a less explored topic in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with selectivity maintenance and propane cracking management. Oxidant choice, notably oxygen, adds safety and complexity issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains elusive, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces challenges including high energy use, costs, emissions, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but it has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but it risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but doesn't provide enough heat, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance. Both oxidants present trade-offs in maintaining high olefin selectivity and managing endothermic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP offers a lower reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key production issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Demand for propylene outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation is a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2) serves as a soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and reducing coke through its gasification properties. Oxide catalysts, particularly Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, but face deactivation issues from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant is safer and resolves these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet demand, especially in Western Europe, due to favoring ethylene and facing thermodynamic constraints and coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs are needed to address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and energy-efficient route to propylene production, potentially reducing environmental impact. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), particularly using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, boosting propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike using molecular oxygen, CO2 minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance ODHP activity and selectivity, but none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient and simpler process, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP, offering exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, aims to improve efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Oxygen's presence can lead to temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and operate at high temperatures, leading to coke formation. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures due to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke. Oxygen boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields but risks over-oxidation. Adding H2S to the feed enhances propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's selectivity promotion, extensive selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in lower yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP could boost propylene yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers a more viable option but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, restricting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a common oxidant, can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, managing the exothermic reaction's heat to prevent overheating, and ensuring safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene challenges current production methods, potentially compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing environmental concerns with CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, hindered by propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve these aspects but shares similar obstacles. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, poses safety issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial viability is yet to be realized due to the difficulty in balancing conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs and byproduct formation. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits, whereas oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations by operating at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including FCC and steam cracking, face challenges like high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures, but it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODP allows for these benefits but also presents this selectivity challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, a key raw material, outpaces production by conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is an alternative that utilizes greenhouse gas and removes coke, promoting PDH completion through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy consumption, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, addresses these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges, particularly in meeting growing demand and favoring ethylene over propylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its effectiveness. ODHP directly converts propane to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce catalyst deactivation, but it may result in lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant in ODHP is critical for reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP targets equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering higher selectivity per pass at high temperatures with SO2 as an oxidant, an edge over conventional methods. However, SO2 inclusion increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy requirements, leading to the exploration of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 modifies the dehydrogenation pathway, lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are studied to mitigate these risks, though current systems haven't matched the yields of industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, thus enhancing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity necessitates careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air increases costs, requiring precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's increased low-cost ethene production has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, a key challenge is avoiding the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity challenges. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and necessitates costly oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control and can cause catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to overcome these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and promoting selectivity for propene. Oxygen as an oxidant enhances propylene yields but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially causing over-oxidation to carbon oxides. H2S in the feed mixture boosts propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, increasing conversion can lead to selectivity losses due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and FCC, struggle with low selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. ODHP could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, hindering the use of remote natural gas reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial for safety and selectivity control, posing a greater challenge in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, for higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is promising for chemical CO2 utilisation, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidizability, reducing selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, is critical yet poses safety and control issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains unfulfilled, hindered by these obstacles.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and costs. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially saving energy. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits, but oxygen use presents over-oxidation risks, affecting propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current production methods, including dehydrogenation, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, avoiding thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but faces issues with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, lower coke formation, and boost propane conversion, addressing key limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP using molecular oxygen offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates. This highlights the ongoing search for a selective catalyst in the ODHP process to address the issues of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation's low yields, due to equilibrium constraints and high-temperature side reactions, are improved by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process. However, ODHP faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting equilibrium and reducing coke, with Cr and Ga catalysts showing promise. Yet, rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits their effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy demands and catalyst regeneration. ODHP offers lower energy needs and eliminates thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen use can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant in ODHP addresses these issues, providing a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with growing demand, especially compared to ethylene production. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking, hindering efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of alkane ODH, as noted by Lange [3].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, emit greenhouse gases, and produce dilutive co-products. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity, increase costs, and raise environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by offering higher selectivity per pass. Using SO2 as an oxidant boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity (Quote 4, 5). Despite advancements, no catalytic system matches the yields of current industrial methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP's limitations, especially in oxidant selection, are significant. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen's challenges include increased process costs and the need for precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, with advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP is more energy-efficient and selective but faces challenges in oxidant selection, notably with oxygen, which can cause overoxidation and carbon oxide formation, complicating temperature control and risking catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are vital for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, reduces coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. H2S in the feedstock modifies the reaction pathway, enhancing propylene selectivity and suppressing over-oxidation, addressing oxygen's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically attractive, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, needs a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their applicability. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection; using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking supply shortfalls. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, with propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures leading to by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, raises safety concerns, affecting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and costly. ODHP presents a more efficient and economical alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces high energy use and low selectivity, prompting interest in ODHP using propane. ODHP offers efficiency and economic benefits but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, while safer, lacks heat provision and can cause additional coke and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). However, PDH faces low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature and lack of thermodynamic limitations, but struggles with propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant in PDH, utilizing CO2 and reducing coke formation, yet catalyst deactivation remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant enhances safety and efficiency, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges, particularly in Western Europe where ethylene is favored despite growing propylene demand. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are critical for ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and cleaner route, with oxygen boosting propylene yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting the oxidant selection challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outstrips current production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring excessive temperatures for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures through heat release and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2, unlike molecular oxygen which fosters over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. ODHP, using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially overcoming endothermic limitations and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none match current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air increases costs. Precise oxygen dosing is essential to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, lower reaction temperatures, and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP is a more efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence leads to temperature control issues, affecting propylene yield and catalyst stability. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to harness ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature needs. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's benefits in promoting high propylene yields, it introduces challenges like the risk of explosive mixtures and selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking struggles with low yields and selectivity, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting its use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, particularly with oxidant selection; oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for dedicated processes like ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include maintaining high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, notably with oxidant selection, where oxygen poses safety concerns. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive, and its commercial potential is unrealized.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, offering selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependency on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a potentially more efficient conversion but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges such as high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by enabling lower temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for selective catalysts. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures, which foster side reactions and require catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as an oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    