Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations of current methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene, aligning with market needs due to its exothermal nature, which improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal processes. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, have high energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient route to propylene with fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in balancing yield, selectivity, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a significant advantage. However, SO2 addition increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the method's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for new, efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by its high temperature requirement for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, offering an advantage over molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant presents challenges of overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being investigated to suppress complete oxidation and improve ODH activity and selectivity, though none have yet matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use and complex processes. ODHP is more energy-efficient but has limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, risks CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety issues due to its reactivity, requiring careful control and use of diluents. Oxygen's use increases costs due to air separation and necessitates precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas's low-cost ethene, highlights the need for on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP boasts thermodynamic advantages, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and reduces coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. Yet, it must tackle over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and reliance on dwindling petroleum. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control and can cause catalyst deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature needs. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but restricts alkene selectivities and risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields. H2S in the feedstock can enhance propene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC struggles with low yields as by-products, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP offers higher yields but faces issues with consecutive oxidation of propylene, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make controlling selectivity in ODHP more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, making selective processes like ODHP significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with selectivity maintenance and propane cracking. Oxygen use in ODHP adds safety concerns, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking faces challenges like high energy use, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process, especially when CO2 is used as an oxidant, reducing costs and greenhouse gas emissions. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. The choice of oxidant is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependency on depleting oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion and economic benefits. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect can shift the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidize propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers improvements by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and avoiding thermodynamic limitations. However, O2 in ODHP poses risks of flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet demand, especially in Western Europe, due to ethylene preference and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, necessitating a balance between environmental and economic factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 addition increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text doesn't address specific challenges with using oxygen in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to overcome these, but oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though they haven't matched industrial yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand is rising, but current production methods using petroleum are costly and unsustainable. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is more energy-efficient and simpler, yet oxygen's use as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as seen in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient route to propylene production. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons, necessitating careful control of reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a propylene supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation into CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and hotspots, complicating temperature control and catalyst activity. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. Its presence risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, reducing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low propylene selectivity, further complicated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate separation processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions affecting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand necessitates alternatives to conventional production methods, which can compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes, making it a promising method. Its CO2 utilization is attractive, but oxygen's specific challenges as an oxidant are often overlooked, requiring further exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to decline with increased conversion. At high temperatures, propane cracking leads to undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar challenges. Oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety concerns, affecting commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and costly. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant offering reduced costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and energy savings. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in dehydrogenation processes like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependency on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more economical and potentially efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, potentially leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion. (Quotes 2, 5, 6, 7)", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces issues like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and less coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation's low yields, due to equilibrium constraints and high-temperature side reactions, are improved by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with oxygen, an exothermic process free from thermodynamic limitations. However, over-oxidation poses a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy costs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints are addressed by ODHP, which offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. However, O2 in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP is safer, milder, and more available, mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges, including thermodynamic constraints and coking, which limit efficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal, energy-efficient alternative to endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for the economic viability of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce significant greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP presents a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is crucial, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, an advantage over traditional methods. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not discuss specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, offering a promising alternative to DDP.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by adding an oxidant, aims to reduce energy input and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, no catalytic system matches current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to address this, potentially making the process exothermic and beneficial for catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy use and complexity. ODHP offers an energy-efficient alternative but using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation, highlighting ODHP's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, leveraging thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability to prevent coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene yield. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and byproducts, affecting yield and necessitating oxygen separation. Oxygen also complicates temperature control and may deactivate catalysts. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Careful control is essential to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and propane separation. ODHP offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2, though more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and reliance on centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic reaction is crucial for safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP boosts propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization addressing environmental concerns, unlike non-oxidative dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity reduces selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection in ODHP introduces safety concerns and process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy consumption, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective process, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits by saving energy and avoiding over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen, which decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on depleting petroleum. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion and economic benefits. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but provides insufficient heat and may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, as highlighted in quote 2, require high temperatures for acceptable yields, and quote 5 mentions the high cost of precious metal catalysts. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation of active species, as noted in quote 6, is another major issue. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could mitigate these challenges by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, controlling propylene selectivity becomes difficult due to overoxidation risks, as explained in quote 7. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen, as suggested in quote 8, can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative that utilizes greenhouse gas and removes coke, promoting PDH by consuming hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or directly oxidizing propane. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy demand, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints are addressed by ODHP, offering lower energy use and avoiding regeneration and thermodynamic limits. However, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues, as it is safer, milder, and readily available.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges meeting demand, especially in Western Europe, and is constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies are needed to overcome dehydrogenation's limitations, and ODHP presents a promising alternative, though challenges in catalyst performance and process design remain.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and yield dilution by co-products. ODHP presents a cleaner, more direct route to propylene with lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a significant advantage. However, SO2 addition increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy demands, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion (Quote 4), though none have matched industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in a review by Cavani et al. and recent studies by Carrero et al. and Ovsitser et al.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing selectivity to propylene. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons requires precise control to prevent runaway reactions and over-oxidation, increasing process costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and prevents coke deposition, addressing some challenges. However, it must overcome the issue of over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low propylene selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity, but it has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges such as high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by a shift towards ethane in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising for its high selectivity and low investment, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation into oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more viable, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their applicability in remote areas. ODHP presents a decentralized alternative that could be more energy-efficient. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, controlling selectivity, and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes. This method utilizes CO2, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products, aligning with chemical CO2 utilization strategies. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with selectivity and propane cracking, similar to traditional methods. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, adds safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, enhancing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is crucial for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by high energy requirements and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but it has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't fully compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, making it preferable over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like endothermic reactions and coke formation. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is hindered by low yields and thermodynamic constraints, necessitating high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limitations but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant in PDH, offers a solution by utilizing CO2 and potentially reducing coke formation. CO2 promotes the reaction by consuming hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 encounters catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges due to growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion, exacerbated by coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial success, as they determine economic attractiveness and process simplicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and cleaner route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. N2O, while improving propene selectivity and reducing deep oxidation, may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation processes. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity and conversion rates at high temperatures, overcoming these limitations. However, SO2 addition increases propane conversion at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, presenting a trade-off in efficiency and yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for more efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 and minimizes carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) counters these by using an oxidant to trigger the reaction, potentially resolving limitations (Quote 2). However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to curb overoxidation and enhance selectivity, yet none have equaled industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand is rising, yet current production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, are costly and unsustainable. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and simpler, offering higher energy efficiency. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and produces by-products. ODHP is a more efficient method but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use in ODHP risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is vital to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits over non-oxidative methods, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and causes temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed, which can lead to catalyst deactivation through coke formation. Successful ODHP implementation requires precise temperature control and suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields below 30%. Careful control is required to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, SC and FCC, struggle with low yields as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam cracking has decreased the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand increases the need for on-purpose propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. ODHP offers higher yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 reactions need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating are key challenges. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges, prompting interest in dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP. This method boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 by-product utilization, making it appealing. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges, underscoring the method's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, causing selectivity to decline with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to unwanted by-products. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, struggles with oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, which poses safety and process issues. Commercializing propane oxydehydrogenation for propylene production remains elusive due to these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields. ODHP presents a more efficient, cost-effective solution, potentially using CO2 as an oxidant to save energy and reduce emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and economic strain. ODHP offers a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion. However, it faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but doesn't fully address the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke. ODHP offers a solution by potentially lowering temperatures but has its own issues, notably controlling propylene selectivity. CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, ODHP using oxygen as an oxidant has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, underscoring the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation has low yields and equilibrium issues, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic but faces selectivity challenges due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a promising soft oxidant for PDH, utilizing CO2 and reducing coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 encounters catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction. Oxide catalysts, especially those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, offering a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP mitigates these issues by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen use can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant addresses these limitations, enhancing ODHP's potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation is constrained by thermodynamics and coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, improves energy efficiency over endothermic methods [8], making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route, with oxygen boosting propylene yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. N2O as an oxidant improves selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a key advantage. However, while SO2 increases propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating new economic techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. ODHP, using an oxidant, overcomes these by potentially reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen can cause overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to maintain selectivity and conversion, though none match current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing, faces challenges that oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to address. ODHP offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity but struggles with selectivity due to over-oxidation when using oxygen. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, as evidenced by successful applications in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, complexity, and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Controlled conditions and precise dosing are required to prevent over-oxidation, and oxygen separation from air adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap, exacerbated by shale gas, motivates ODHP exploration (Q1). ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially outperforming non-oxidative methods (Q2). However, preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2 remains a significant hurdle (Q3).", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP is a more efficient and selective method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen can cause hotspots and temperature control issues, affecting propylene yield and catalyst stability. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and enhancing propene selectivity, though oxygen's use as an oxidant limits alkene selectivities and can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high yields but presents risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising for its high propylene selectivity and lower capital costs, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially boost yields but is capped at about 30% due to the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve use. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially with oxidant selection; oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Finding catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions safely is a challenge. Propane's weaker bonds make selectivity control in ODHP difficult.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene highlights challenges in current production methods, making dedicated processes like ODHP increasingly significant. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive CO2 utilisation process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but shares similar challenges. Oxidant selection, especially oxygen use, adds safety concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high costs, energy demands, and byproduct issues. ODHP offers a more efficient, selective, and potentially cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts its benefits by saving energy and enhancing selectivity. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, reducing propylene yield. Oxidant choice is crucial for propylene production in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic constraints, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient use of reactants and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could reduce reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also presents the limitation of low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Demand for propylene outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and high temperatures that foster side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a soft oxidant that enhances PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, but PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and readily addresses these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and coking in current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for alternatives [1][2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, offers improved energy efficiency [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are critical for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5][6].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases, with yields diluted by co-products. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, directly converting propane. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is pivotal, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, surpassing conventional methods. However, SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation, addressing DDP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction (Quote 2), but oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet (Quotes 4-6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, as noted in Quote 1. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins, as highlighted in Quote 4. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and beneficial for catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP is a more energy-efficient route to propylene but faces limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation and ensure controlled conditions.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially boosting efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, it must address the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low propylene selectivity, and depend on dwindling oil reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, can lead to overoxidation and temperature control issues, impacting catalyst performance. Precise temperature control and advanced catalysts are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via cracking and dehydrogenation faces challenges like high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation to carbon oxides and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is thermodynamically limited, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, necessitates a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized and potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods, like compromised co-product yields from steam and catalytic cracking, underscore the need for alternatives. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is attractive for chemical CO2 utilization, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen presents specific challenges not well-addressed in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's reactivity, causing selectivity to drop with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, introduces safety issues and process instability, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the crucial role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, which avoids thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an alternative with potentially more economical feedstock and efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2 avoids overoxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, potentially leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges due to high operating temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation, as highlighted in quote [2] and [5]-[6]. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures, thanks to its exothermic nature. However, controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks, as mentioned in quote [7]. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, as stated in quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, including catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically unfavorable, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation by shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction, as seen in the rapid deactivation of Ga2O3 and the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) in chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic challenges. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant mitigates these, as it's milder and readily available.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues highlight the need for new technologies [1][2]. ODHP, an exothermal process, improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and cleaner route to propylene, with oxygen boosting yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative petroleum processing, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and simpler alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. A proposed solution is the use of CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could potentially turn the process exothermic and reduce catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of oxygen use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, is energy-intensive. ODHP is a more efficient method but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, leading to CO and CO2 formation and reduced selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons requires careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air adds to costs. Precise oxygen dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting exploration of on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, but must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP is more energy-efficient and selective but faces challenges with oxygen use, including overoxidation to carbon oxides, costly oxygen separation, temperature control issues, and potential yield reduction. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are key to overcoming these hurdles.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP for high propylene yields is offset by risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. Oxygen's selectivity promotion is counterbalanced by selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the trend towards ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's further oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine, while more feasible, still grapples with polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and centralized plant requirements, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but faces challenges with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can cause side reactions affecting propylene yield. The process requires catalysts to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. Selectivity control is challenging due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP emerges as a significant alternative, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with the added benefit of CO2 utilisation for syngas production. However, the literature's lack of exploration on oxygen use in ODHP presents a key oxidant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, hindered by propylene's higher reactivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve these but faces similar issues, especially with selectivity at higher conversion rates and propane cracking. Oxygen as an oxidant adds safety and process concerns, reflecting the elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive, costly, and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially increasing propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation in methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of O2 remains a challenge for process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges due to high operating temperatures, high costs of precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant alternative to oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and promote propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but also results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation has low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a promising soft oxidant in PDH, aiding coke removal and shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder, and more accessible solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, outpaces current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coking hinder efficiency [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency over endothermal methods [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route, converting propane directly to propylene. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability, with N2O showing promise for higher propylene selectivity and lower catalyst deactivation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP seeks to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a key advantage. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The literature overlooks oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, making oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 a viable alternative. CO2 reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane, increases conversion by consuming H2, and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to enhance selectivity and conversion while mitigating complete oxidation (Quote 4). Despite advancements, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various industries, faces challenges due to high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these concerns. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, leading to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, thus enhancing the viability of ODHP as an alternative production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy consumption and process complexity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient alternative but struggles with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, which can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, and air separation adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption and low selectivity, relying on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to undesired carbon oxides and potential catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation and selectivity losses with increased conversion, impacting yields. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, yield low propylene selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but faces challenges in oxidant selection. F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics. Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive. I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application due to I2 recycling efficiency. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized alternative, potentially more energy-efficient. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods, making ODHP a promising alternative. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces unique challenges, a less explored area in literature, impacting the method's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation and propane cracking above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with selectivity and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, adds safety and process issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, suffer from high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and rapid catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints but risks overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides when using oxygen as an oxidant, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependency on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion process. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and may increase coke deposition due to competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures required for acceptable yields and the high cost of precious metal catalysts prone to deactivation (quotes 2, 5-6). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a lower reaction temperature but struggles with overoxidation, risking propylene conversion to carbon monoxide and dioxide (quote 7). Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of O2 can mitigate overoxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion by utilizing the produced hydrogen in the reverse water-gas shift reaction (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP addresses these issues by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the importance of oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation has low yields and equilibrium issues, requiring high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation affects selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH is promising for utilizing CO2, managing coke, and promoting reactions through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and propane dehydrogenation faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a low-energy solution without catalyst regeneration, overcoming thermodynamic limitations. Yet, oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, addresses these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution issues. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen boosts propylene yields due to its reactivity but risks deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. N2O improves selectivity and reduces deactivation rates, though it's costlier and has environmental concerns. Oxidant selection is critical in ODHP, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium issues, which ODHP addresses using SO2 as an oxidant, improving selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 boosts propane conversion at the expense of propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacities, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy demands. Oxidative dehydrogenation using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates these issues by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion, unlike oxygen which fosters over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. ODHP, by adding an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues, potentially reducing energy consumption and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative petroleum processing, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks deep oxidation to CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates controlled conditions and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, adding to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in steam cracking boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene demand-supply gap. ODHP, an on-purpose propene technology, leverages exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. Yet, it must overcome the over-oxidation challenge to avoid converting propene into CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP is a more efficient and selective method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can lead to temperature control issues, reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in lower yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and declining yields as ethane becomes the preferred feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction is crucial for safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for dedicated synthesis processes like ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. Using CO2 in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilisation, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents unexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers improved conversion and selectivity but struggles with selectivity maintenance and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen, poses safety issues, hindering ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues, with reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative with improved propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen can decrease propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations by operating at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make dehydrogenation exothermic, but complicates olefin selectivity. CO2, while avoiding over-oxidation, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP can reduce temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, minimizes coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by enabling lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but affects selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production, via catalytic and steam cracking, faces low conversion and yield due to equilibrium limitations and high-temperature requirements that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic, non-equilibrium-limited alternative, but propylene selectivity is hindered by over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting the equilibrium towards propylene production, addressing coke issues and utilizing CO2, as seen in the promoting effect of CO2 on PDH (two-step or one-step pathway).", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and limitations of current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP presents as a direct, energy-efficient route to propylene, being exothermal, but using oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental concerns. Innovative catalysts and process designs are crucial for improving performance and addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and cleaner route to propylene, but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP overcomes equilibrium limitations in propylene production, enhancing propane conversion and selectivity at high temperatures when using SO2 as an oxidant, though propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating new methods. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements hinder significant yields. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures, increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, offers an exothermic process with reduced coke formation, overcoming some limitations (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, yet none have matched industrial olefin production yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, a cornerstone for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can reduce propylene selectivity by forming CO and CO2 and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, addressing limitations of non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is more energy-efficient and selective for propylene. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to hotspots and potential catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature needs. ODHP mitigates these issues by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing yields and requiring strict control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feedstock can improve propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use in ODHP impacts selectivity with increased conversion, due to propene oxidation to carbon oxides, affecting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane feedstock and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is hindered by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can boost propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more viable alternative, but polyhalogenation selectivity issues limit single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is energy-intensive and restrictive, favoring large-scale plants over remote natural gas reserves. ODHP presents a decentralized, energy-efficient alternative, but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, risks side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for selective processes like ODHP, which boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, underscoring the method's limitations despite its potential advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility leads to declining selectivity. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP aims to improve these aspects but shares similar issues, notably with selectivity. Oxygen selection in ODHP introduces safety concerns, and propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains unfulfilled due to these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high costs, energy use, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective process, especially when CO2 is used as an oxidant, reducing costs and emissions. Oxygen, however, decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. The oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents an alternative, using propane as a cost-effective feedstock with potentially higher conversion efficiency. However, ODHP faces challenges in oxidant selection: oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions; CO2, as a milder oxidant, avoids overoxidation but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing limitations of oxygen use.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, highlighting the importance of oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds production from conventional methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-thermodynamically limited but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 to remove coke and promote propane dehydrogenation through two pathways. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limitations. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    