Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Europe, and constraints in current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for alternatives. ODHP presents an exothermal, direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production posing environmental and economic challenges. The success of ODHP depends on catalyst performance and innovative process designs, aiming to match or exceed yields of current technologies while addressing energy and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing propylene yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can enhance propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and increase costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability, crucial for optimizing ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating new methods. DDP's high temperature requirements and thermodynamic limits are overcome by ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 reduces operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxides, unlike O2, by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these by avoiding endothermic issues and coke buildup (Quote 2). However, oxygen use in ODHP risks overoxidation to CO/CO2 and reaction instability (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though they haven't matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could mitigate over-oxidation, turn the process exothermic, and potentially reduce catalyst coking, addressing the limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and by-product issues. ODHP is a more energy-efficient alternative but has limitations, notably with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, posing safety risks due to its reactivity, increasing costs with air separation, and requiring precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, potentially improving efficiency. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are inefficient and have low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while abundant and affordable, poses overoxidation risks and complicates temperature control due to potential hotspots. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these issues. The risks of overoxidation and coke formation must be balanced against oxygen's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. However, oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane, reducing propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields, but they're capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial use. Bromine is more feasible but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, risking yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilization, producing syngas by-products. However, oxygen use introduces specific challenges not fully addressed in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably the use of oxygen, introduces safety and process concerns, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective process, potentially lowering costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances efficiency and selectivity without over-oxidation risks, unlike O2 which can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2, highlighting the importance of oxidant choice in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite advancements with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient conversion route using propane, but it encounters difficulties in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may increase coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can lower reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke, but has low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but also results in lower propylene selectivity, addressing the demand for olefins while presenting its own set of limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limits, but over-oxidation hinders selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH utilizes CO2, aids coke removal, but catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction is a hurdle. Cr and Ga oxide catalysts are active in PDH with CO2, yet deactivation remains a critical issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses propylene production's energy inefficiency, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits, offering lower energy use and avoiding catalyst regeneration and thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen's use can cause flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and issues like thermodynamic constraints and coking in current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP presents an exothermal process that improves energy efficiency, making it a viable alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Despite this, ODHP offers potential for innovation in catalysts and process designs, addressing the limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like steam cracking are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs and fewer co-products. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires costly oxygen separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces over-oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability, impacting the efficiency and economics of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP tackles propylene production's equilibrium limitations by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion, yet compromises propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the method's trade-offs.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, demanding high temperatures for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 also curbs over-oxidation, cutting carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by incorporating an oxidant, addresses issues of endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH selectivity and conversion, though none have matched current industrial olefin yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, especially via steam cracking, is energy-demanding. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though effective, risks over-oxidation, impacting propylene yield and increasing costs due to air separation. Precise dosing is crucial to prevent deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's surge impacts propylene production, widening the supply-demand gap and spotlighting ODHP as a viable on-purpose technology. ODHP boasts favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, offering an edge over non-oxidative methods. Yet, it must tackle the critical challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and requires strict temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's benefits are offset by these limitations, emphasizing the need for advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with coke formation, which ODHP addresses by operating at lower temperatures to reduce coke and promote propene selectivity. Oxygen's presence is crucial but can cause over-oxidation, limiting yields. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway, and oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, capping propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by a shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, still struggle with polyhalogenation selectivity, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and not suitable for remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have challenges, leading to interest in ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique, underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with declining selectivity and increased propane cracking at high temperatures, hindering high conversion. ODHP aims to enhance conversion but faces challenges due to propylene's reactivity and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, poses safety and process issues, making the goal of high conversion and selectivity elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, costs, and environmental impact. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution with enhanced selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen which can diminish propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is critical. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, yet may cause insufficient heat, additional coke deposition, and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP can mitigate high temperature needs but risks overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and promote propane conversion, addressing key issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing some issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods, highlighting the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields, equilibrium constraints, and high-temperature side reactions, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic limitations but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by utilizing CO2 and reducing coke formation, yet catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction remains a challenge. [3] [4]", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's high energy costs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits are addressed by ODHP, which reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and dehydrogenation limitations challenge current production methods [1,2]. ODHP, an exothermal process, enhances energy efficiency [8]. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more efficient and cleaner route, with oxygen boosting propylene yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy for separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by employing SO2 as an oxidant, improving selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, the addition of SO2 boosts propane conversion but compromises propylene selectivity compared to a pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic constraints require excessive temperatures for yield, as per quote 2. ODHP, using CO2 as a mild oxidant, reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, as quote 3 explains. CO2 boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, unlike oxygen, which over-oxidizes, as noted in quote 5, minimizing carbon oxides.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to address these issues but faces the challenge of overoxidation and reaction runaway when using oxygen. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress complete oxidation, improving selectivity and conversion. However, these catalysts have yet to match the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are resource-intensive. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient route but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen use in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Precise oxygen dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation and prevent runaway reactions, which increase costs and safety concerns. Oxygen separation from air adds to the expense, highlighting the need for careful control.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene's supply-demand gap drives interest in ODHP, which, by offering thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, could boost efficiency over non-oxidative methods. Yet, ODHP must tackle the issue of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP is a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces issues with oxidant selection, notably oxygen, which can lead to overoxidation and temperature control problems, impacting catalyst performance. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are crucial for ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy use and coke formation. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, mitigates coke formation but encounters limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but restricts alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, risking over-oxidation and decreased propene yields. Careful control is essential to avoid explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use results in selectivity losses with increasing conversion, impacting propene yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, face challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which further decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is hindered by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 lacks selectivity, I2 reactions are slow and favorable only at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, struggles with polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Selectivity control is challenging due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds, requiring efficient catalysts to activate propane under mild conditions while managing the exothermic reaction for safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights production challenges, making ODHP a significant alternative. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, impacting its viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility, which decreases selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP, aiming to improve these aspects, faces challenges in maintaining selectivity because of propylene's reactivity. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety concerns and process upsets, hindering its commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is costly, energy-intensive, and raises environmental issues. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially reducing costs. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts efficiency and selectivity without the over-oxidation risks associated with oxygen, which can decrease propylene selectivity by converting it to CO2. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, face high energy demands and low selectivity, compounded by reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a key limitation. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but less effective, struggles with the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures and catalyst deactivation, as noted in quote [2]. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces these by being exothermic, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation, as mentioned in quote [7]. Using CO2 as an oxidant, as suggested in quote [8], avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). However, PDH faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and potentially mitigating coke formation, but involves rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, shifting the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation and participating in direct propane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Steam cracking for propylene faces high energy costs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant is safer, milder, and more available, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and issues like thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation in current production methods highlight the need for alternatives. ODHP presents an exothermal, energy-efficient solution, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, requiring a balance between production needs and environmental/economic factors. [1,2,5,8,13]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient route with fewer co-products. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity, reducing deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental issues. Oxidant choice is critical, balancing yield, selectivity, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity at high temperatures, an advantage over conventional methods. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen presents specific challenges in ODHP, though these are not detailed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to address these issues but risks overoxidation and reaction instability when oxygen is used. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to improve selectivity and conversion, though they haven't yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently dependent on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as evidenced by its successful application in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex, whereas ODHP offers a more efficient route. However, ODHP's oxidant selection poses challenges, particularly with oxygen, which can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity necessitates diluents and precise control to prevent runaway reactions, increasing costs and requiring careful oxygen dosing.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose technologies. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods, but must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and rely on depleting petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, leading to catalyst deactivation. Successful ODHP requires precise temperature control and suitable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges like high energy consumption and coke formation. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity and yields but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, requiring careful management to prevent explosions. H2S addition improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, mitigating selectivity losses at higher conversions.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC suffers from low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, faces thermodynamic constraints requiring high temperatures, complicating product separation. ODHP aims to boost propylene yields but struggles with propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 needs a high propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights issues in current production methods, making ODHP appealing due to higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP is a promising CO2 utilization method, but using oxygen as an oxidant presents unique, less explored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with high reactivity and propane cracking, limiting conversion and selectivity. ODHP aims to enhance these but faces similar challenges, notably with oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, posing safety issues. Commercializing propane oxydehydrogenation remains challenging, as achieving high conversion and selectivity has proven elusive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, struggle with high energy costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more efficient, cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, underscoring the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current methods, like dehydrogenation, have thermodynamic limits requiring high energy and suffer from catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking and FCC is challenged by high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP presents an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is critical. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but insufficient for heat, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. ODHP reduces temperatures but struggles with selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand is rising, but current production methods like steam cracking, FCC, and DH face challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. This emphasizes the ongoing search for improved catalysts to enhance propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds supply from conventional methods, necessitating propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and avoids thermodynamic limitations but struggles with over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) enhances PDH by utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation through the reverse water-gas shift reaction, making it an attractive soft oxidant. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, though rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant enhances safety and efficiency, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to ethylene preference in steam cracking and dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues. ODHP, an exothermal process, enhances energy efficiency but using oxygen increases energy losses and costs due to CO2 by-product. Innovative catalysts and process designs are essential for optimizing performance and mitigating environmental impact, addressing the need for specific olefin production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more efficient route with fewer co-products. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity, reduces deep oxidation risk, but may lower activity, increase costs, and raise environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses propylene production's equilibrium limitations by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures, an advantage over conventional methods. However, SO2 increases propane conversion at the expense of lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, highlighting a trade-off. The specific challenges of using oxygen in ODHP are not addressed, indicating a gap in the current analysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat, unlike molecular oxygen which causes over-oxidation. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 and minimizes carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to tackle these, but oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have yet matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity as an exothermic alternative. However, ODHP struggles with selectivity issues due to the use of oxygen as an oxidant, which can over-oxidize paraffins and olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, addressing ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and generates unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient, direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's surge in low-cost ethene production widened the propylene demand-supply gap, spurring interest in ODHP for on-purpose propene. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, avoiding coke deposition. A key challenge is preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, yet it's constrained by oxidant selection. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success, with precise temperature control essential to prevent catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke. Oxygen, a preferred ODHP oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosions and selectivity losses with increased conversion, leading to yields below 30%. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but is limited to around 30% due to further oxidation of propylene. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are resource-intensive and centralized, whereas ODHP offers a more efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP's success hinges on oxidant selection, with oxygen posing risks of side reactions that can compromise propylene yield. The process requires catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage exothermic reactions to ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP is advantageous for chemical CO2 utilisation and syngas by-product generation. Using oxygen introduces unexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with declining selectivity as conversion increases and unwanted by-products from propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably using oxygen, adds safety concerns and process instability, as highlighted by propane oxydehydrogenation's struggle to achieve high conversion and selectivity simultaneously.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking encounters high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues, with reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, enhancing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks, unlike oxygen which decreases propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing to CO2. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including supply deficits and thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, exacerbated by catalyst deactivation from coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures, offering an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity, despite advancements with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, relying on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more efficient conversion and economic benefits. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. Conversely, CO2 enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, minimizes coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst. [1] [2]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles with low yields, equilibrium limitations, and high-temperature side reactions, leading to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an exothermic, non-thermodynamically limited alternative, though propylene selectivity is hindered by over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a promising soft oxidant for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), utilizing greenhouse gas and serving as a coke remover. Its promoting effect either shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, despite catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits, are mitigated by ODHP, which reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations from thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal, and energy-efficient method for propylene production. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, and the production of CO2 adds environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP presents a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxygen as an oxidant enhancing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation risk, albeit with potential activity reduction, higher costs, and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly influences the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, notably with SO2 as an oxidant, boosts selectivity at high temperatures, illustrating its potential. However, SO2 addition increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting both benefits and drawbacks of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. ODHP using CO2 as a mild oxidant lowers operating temperatures and enhances propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen, which prevents over-oxidation and reduces carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by introducing an oxidant, addresses these issues but risks overoxidation and reaction runaway when using oxygen. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity, though no system has matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces significant challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) emerges as a promising alternative, offering higher energy efficiency and simpler processes. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest that using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially making the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance, addressing the limitations of oxygen use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive. ODHP is a more efficient method but faces challenges with oxidant selection, notably oxygen. Oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring controlled conditions and diluents. Oxygen separation from air adds to the cost, impacting the overall efficiency of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a supply-demand gap for propylene, driving interest in on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and low selectivity, with a reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation and enhancing propene selectivity, but oxygen limits alkene selectivities and can cause over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields. Oxygen requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and selectivity losses with increased conversion. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, prompting the need for on-purpose production technologies. Propane dehydrogenation is theoretically advantageous but faces thermodynamic constraints, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields, yet it is limited by the consecutive oxidation of propylene, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, affecting industrial application; bromine offers a more feasible option, but resolving polyhalogenation selectivity requires a higher propane to bromine ratio, impacting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and requires large-scale plants. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, especially in oxidant selection; using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are vital for managing the reaction's exothermic nature and preventing over-oxidation, ensuring safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand stresses current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP presents a solution with higher propane conversion and propene yield, utilizing CO2 as a promising oxidant and producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges that are not well-documented.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures, making propane oxydehydrogenation's goal elusive. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen use, adds safety concerns, hindering ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, suffer from high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further minimizing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, operates at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of O2 can cause overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides (COx), impacting the efficiency of the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP using propane is more efficient and economically viable. Oxidant selection is pivotal: oxygen reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, impacting selectivity. Conversely, CO2 boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but it lacks sufficient heat for dehydrogenation and may increase coke formation and competitive adsorption, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP enables lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to low yields in direct dehydrogenation, exacerbated by equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an attractive alternative, being exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but selectivity issues due to over-oxidation persist. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting the equilibrium and aiding coke removal, making it a promising approach. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limitations. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy requirements, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely and mildly addresses these issues, making it a favorable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, especially in Western Europe, and limitations of current methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking, highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP presents a direct route for propylene production from propane, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, as noted by Lange. Despite these challenges, ODHP remains a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of current methods while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases, unlike ODHP, which is cleaner and more energy-efficient. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and incurs high separation costs. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity and propane conversion at high temperatures, though with reduced propylene selectivity. Using oxygen as an ODHP oxidant presents challenges, a point often overlooked in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by altering the dehydrogenation pathway and increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production from propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic limits, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to mitigate these challenges (Quote 2). However, using oxygen for ODHP risks overoxidation and reaction instability (Quote 3). To address this, catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has yet matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, facing challenges due to costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, could benefit from oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking. Despite reported yields of up to 40% in propene, industrial implementation of ODHP remains limited due to concerns over catalyst lifetime and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges with oxygen as an oxidant, causing deep oxidation and safety risks. Oxygen separation adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene widens the propylene supply-demand gap, necessitating on-purpose technologies. ODHP, with its thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an alternative to non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific obstacle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, complicates temperature control and can deactivate catalysts due to overoxidation and carbon oxide formation. Successful ODHP requires suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's ability to inhibit coke formation. Oxygen enhances selectivity for propene but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides. Adding H2S to the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and mitigating over-oxidation, yet selectivity decreases with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, limiting yields.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but struggles with propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, affecting co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation challenges with CO2 as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces specific issues, a less explored topic in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant choice, particularly oxygen, introduces safety and complexity issues, hindering propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy use, costs, emissions, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make reactions exothermic, but risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but doesn't provide enough heat, leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance. Both oxidants present trade-offs in maintaining high olefin selectivity and managing endothermic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a lower reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key production issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production capacities, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high-temperature side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, avoiding thermodynamic limits, but over-oxidation is a hurdle. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH utilizes CO2, aids in coke reduction through gasification, and shifts the PDH equilibrium. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2, yet suffer from deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant is safer and resolves these issues, making it a favorable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, dominated by steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to thermodynamic constraints and coking. ODHP presents a direct route to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs are needed to address these challenges, aiming for comparable yields to current olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face issues such as high energy use, emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient route, potentially reducing environmental impact. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity, highlighting trade-offs in oxidant choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat, enhancing propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2, unlike molecular oxygen, minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant, aims to mitigate these by initiating the reaction without solely relying on high temperatures. However, oxygen use risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance ODHP activity and selectivity, though none have yet matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally non-oxidative and petroleum-based, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and simpler process, but yields and catalyst lifetimes have been limiting factors. Selectivity to propylene is chemically constrained by the use of O2, leading to over-oxidation. Recent studies suggest CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, potentially making the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, addressing key limitations of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more direct and energy-efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing selectivity to propylene and posing safety risks. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation, and air separation adds to costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's supply-demand gap drives interest in ODHP, which offers exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, improving efficiency over non-oxidative methods. However, preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2 remains a key scientific challenge.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production by steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP is a more efficient and selective method. However, using oxygen in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires costly separation from air. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from coke formation due to high temperatures. ODHP mitigates this by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke. Oxygen enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is essential to prevent explosive mixtures. Despite oxygen's benefits, selectivity losses occur with increased conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, reducing yields. Adding H2S to the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC faces low yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. ODHP could enhance propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers a more viable option but necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, restricting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a common oxidant, can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's heat to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand challenges current production methods, risking co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, addressing environmental concerns through CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, hindered by propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these but faces similar issues, notably the difficulty in balancing conversion and selectivity, making commercial viability elusive. Oxidant safety, especially with oxygen, is a concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is costly and produces byproducts. ODHP is a more efficient and selective method, potentially lowering costs and emissions. CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances benefits, unlike oxygen, which risks over-oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations by operating at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face high energy demands, low selectivity, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and efficient conversion, but oxidant selection is a limitation. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks, but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP could lower reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also presents the selectivity challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising as it utilizes greenhouse gas, removes coke, and promotes PDH completion by consuming hydrogen or directly oxidizing propane.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges, including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints, are mitigated by ODHP, which reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a safer oxidant addresses these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand and favor ethylene over propylene [1]. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamic constraints and coking, leading to catalyst deactivation [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly converts propane to propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process [8]. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with lower energy needs and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces catalyst deactivation, but it has lower activity, higher costs, and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical for reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production, offering higher selectivity at high temperatures compared to conventional methods. Using SO2 as an oxidant increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity. This highlights the trade-offs in oxidant selection for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is energy-intensive, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 alters the dehydrogenation pathway, lowering temperatures and boosting propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction, while minimizing carbon oxide production by curbing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides, are studied to mitigate these risks, though current systems haven't matched the yields of industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, vital for numerous chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking, thus enhancing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, is energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity requires precise control to prevent runaway reactions and increases costs due to its separation from air, necessitating careful dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's rise has widened the propylene supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP, with its favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, offers an edge over non-oxidative methods. Yet, a major hurdle is preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy consumption and selectivity issues, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause overoxidation, necessitating costly oxygen separation, and complicates temperature control, leading to catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP offers lower temperature operation, reducing coke and favoring propene selectivity. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting alkene selectivities. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation. However, increased conversion can lead to selectivity losses due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by ethane preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, requiring high temperatures that complicate separation. ODHP could boost yields but is limited to about 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods have drawbacks, including energy intensity and reliance on large-scale plants, which ODHP addresses by offering a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Managing the exothermic nature of the ODHP reaction is critical for safety and selectivity, presenting a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights challenges in current production methods, driving interest in propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, for enhanced conversion and yield. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is promising for chemical CO2 utilization, while using oxygen presents unexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher oxidizability reduces selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues but faces similar challenges, with propane oxydehydrogenation's high conversion and selectivity remaining elusive and its commercial potential unfulfilled.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and costly. ODHP offers a more efficient and economical alternative, potentially reducing energy consumption. Selecting CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances its benefits, whereas oxygen use risks over-oxidation, impacting propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical petrochemical feedstock, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current production methods, including dehydrogenation, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, avoiding thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's limitations are significant, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and impacts olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, lower coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP using molecular oxygen offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the ongoing search for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand exceeds conventional production methods, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation's low yields, due to equilibrium constraints and high-temperature side reactions, are improved by oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process. However, ODHP faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting equilibrium and reducing coke, with Cr and Ga catalysts showing promise. Yet, rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits their effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption and catalyst regeneration. ODHP offers a solution with lower energy needs and no thermodynamic limitations. However, oxygen use can cause flammability and poor selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP addresses these issues, providing a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces challenges with growing demand and efficiency issues. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking. ODHP offers an exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of alkane ODH. This highlights the need for new technologies like ODHP, which addresses the limitations of current methods while presenting its own challenges, particularly in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner alternative but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for separation. N2O enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity, increase costs, and raise environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations, which ODHP overcomes by enhancing selectivity per pass. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, exemplifying the method's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces production, highlighting the need for efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy demands, leading to interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 lowers operating temperatures, boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, and curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to mitigate these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant poses risks of overoxidation and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity (Quotes 4, 5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has achieved yields comparable to current industrial methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, the use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Recent studies propose using CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could mitigate over-oxidation, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive. ODHP offers a more direct and efficient route, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can reduce propylene selectivity due to deep oxidation and poses safety risks. Oxygen's challenges include increased process costs and the need for precise dosing to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy use and low selectivity issues. ODHP offers improved energy efficiency and selectivity but encounters challenges in oxidant selection, notably with oxygen, which complicates temperature control and risks catalyst deactivation. Precise temperature control and suitable catalysts are essential for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, minimizes coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation. H2S in the feedstock enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates over-oxidation, addressing oxygen's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising, is constrained by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and large-scale, whereas ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection; using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for activating propane under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation, and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, risking supply shortfalls. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization as a by-product, addressing production challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, exacerbated by propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, notably the safety concerns with oxygen use, impacting its commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and costly. ODHP offers a more efficient and economical alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via conventional methods suffers from high energy consumption and low selectivity, leading to interest in ODHP using propane. ODHP offers efficiency and economic advantages but faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a safer option, lacks heat provision and can cause additional coke formation and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP reduces temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to uncontrollable combustion. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution with lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). PDH, however, is constrained by low yields due to equilibrium limits and high temperatures that spur side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous for its exothermic nature and lack of thermodynamic limitations, but faces selectivity issues. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant in PDH, offering CO2 utilization and coke reduction benefits, yet catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant enhances safety and efficiency, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in current methods like steam cracking, which favors ethylene despite growing propylene demand, and dehydrogenation, limited by thermodynamics and coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene with improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are critical for ODHP's commercial viability, aiming to match yields of current technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and cleaner route, with oxygen boosting propylene yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. Using N2O as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, improves selectivity at high temperatures but increases propane conversion at the cost of propylene selectivity, illustrating the oxidant selection challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates efficient production methods. DDP's thermodynamic constraints and high temperature requirements for significant yields are addressed by ODHP. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in ODHP reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and boosts propane conversion by consuming H2, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using an oxidant, addresses these by potentially overcoming endothermic limitations and reducing coke formation. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though current systems do not match industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces sustainability and cost issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and simpler processes, addressing these challenges. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as evidenced by its success in other partial oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route but faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons requires precise control to prevent runaway reactions, and separation from air increases costs. Careful oxygen dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas impacts have widened the propylene supply-demand gap, spotlighting ODHP as a promising alternative. ODHP boasts thermodynamic advantages, lower reaction temperatures, and reduced coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. Yet, it must tackle the critical issue of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and lacks selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation to carbon oxides and requires energy for oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, impacting propylene yield and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with coke formation. ODHP, operating at lower temperatures, reduces this issue. Oxygen, as an oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, requiring careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation, balancing oxygen's benefits with the need for safety and selectivity management.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, face challenges with low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which further reduces propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal for high propylene selectivity and low investment, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, limiting its use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it faces limitations, especially with oxidant selection; oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are essential to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, addressing growing propene demand. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents underexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as increased conversion leads to declining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking produces various by-products. ODHP aims to improve these aspects but struggles with oxidant selection, notably the safety concerns with oxygen. Achieving high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains a challenge, and its commercial potential is yet to be realized.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking encounters high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and FCC, face challenges like high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP, using propane, offers a more efficient conversion but grapples with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, boosts catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't offset the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, highlighting the need for selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods, highlighting the need for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and high temperatures, promoting side reactions and necessitating catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2, removing coke, and promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face rapid deactivation from coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using carbon dioxide as an oxidant safely and mildly addresses these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    