Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges, including ethylene preference and growing demand, especially in Western Europe. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing yields but risking deep oxidation to CO2 and requiring energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions are addressed by ODHP, which uses SO2 as an oxidant to enhance selectivity at high temperatures. SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity. The text does not discuss specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, highlighting the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is constrained by high energy demands. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures and boosts propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. CO2, unlike oxygen, curbs over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, as shown in quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, overcomes these issues (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH selectivity and conversion, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, crucial for various chemicals, faces high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity. However, selectivity to propylene is limited when using oxygen as an oxidant due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, have high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can lead to temperature control issues and catalyst deactivation, impacting propylene yield. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It also poses risks of over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, its use presents challenges like selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane use and rising propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could boost propylene yields but faces the challenge of propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, with recycling efficiency limiting industrial application; bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection, as using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The challenge lies in developing catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand strains current production methods, prompting exploration of alternatives. ODHP offers enhanced propane conversion and propene yield, potentially serving as a CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents uncharted challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, poses safety concerns and process upsets, hindering ODHP's commercial potential. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously remains elusive, impacting the technology's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions compared to traditional methods. However, using oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, which eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen lowers reaction temperatures and makes the reaction exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2 is safer but less effective, potentially leading to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, minimizes coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing some of these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and unfavorable thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a soft oxidant that benefits PDH by utilizing CO2, removing coke, and enhancing propylene yield through a two-step pathway or direct oxidation. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production struggles with high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP mitigates these issues by lowering energy demand, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation, but CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder, and more readily available solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces growing demand and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP presents as an exothermal process, improving energy efficiency. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, highlighting the need for innovative technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production, with energy efficiency as a key advantage. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts product selectivity, catalyst stability, and overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), particularly using SO2 as an oxidant. SO2 enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion but slightly reducing propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by releasing heat and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces issues like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these, but oxygen risks overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, help suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity, though they haven't matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly with oxidant selection, are significant. Oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, reducing selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly with oxidant selection, are significant. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Increased low-cost ethene from shale gas creates a propylene supply-demand gap, prompting exploration of on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but faces the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers an energy-efficient and selective alternative, but oxidant selection poses limitations. Oxygen use risks overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen enhances selectivity but increases costs. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, necessitating advanced catalysts and reactor designs to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive and prone to coke formation. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. However, oxygen limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion and can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low propylene selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but faces the issue of propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, with a maximum yield of about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their applicability. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but it faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The need for catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating are key challenges. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges, prompting interest in dedicated methods like ODHP. This process boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield, with CO2 utilization as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 use. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP introduces unique challenges, underscoring the need for careful oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP, while offering potential improvements, struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking, especially with oxygen as an oxidant, which adds safety and process concerns. Achieving a balance between high propane conversion and high propylene selectivity remains elusive, hindering ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking is energy-intensive, costly, and environmentally problematic. ODHP presents a more efficient and cost-effective solution, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions, unlike O2, which can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are energy-intensive and suffer from catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids thermodynamic constraints but risks overoxidation with oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, impacting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an alternative, using propane as a cost-effective feedstock with potentially higher conversion efficiency. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including FCC and steam cracking, face challenges such as high temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but this introduces challenges in controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, a key chemical in various industries, outpaces production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, highlighting the need for alternatives. Direct dehydrogenation of propane faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process not bound by thermodynamic limitations, presents an attractive alternative but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a solution by utilizing CO2 and potentially removing coke, shifting the equilibrium towards propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and Cr(VI) reduction remains a challenge. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, enhancing propylene yield through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers lower energy consumption, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, reducing selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant safely mitigates these issues, enhancing process safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative, addressing the limitations of traditional methods while introducing its own set of considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more energy-efficient route to propylene, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy needs, requiring temperatures over 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 and prevents over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate reactions, potentially avoiding high temperatures and coke formation. However, using oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based processes, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing sustainability and cost issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but faces limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is crucial to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke formation. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity challenges. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but using oxygen as an oxidant can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control and can lead to catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, highlighting the need for suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's ability to inhibit coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation, decreasing yields and posing safety concerns. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway and preventing over-oxidation. However, selectivity decreases with higher conversion due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields to under 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand increases the need for on-purpose propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures for conversion, complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers more feasibility but needs a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption and require large-scale plants, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative, but it faces challenges, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control harder in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights challenges in current production methods, making ODHP a promising selective process. ODHP boasts higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 use attractive for chemical CO2 utilization. However, the role of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP is underexplored, marking a critical area for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include declining selectivity with increased conversion and propane cracking at high temperatures, yielding various by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces similar issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's goal of high conversion and selectivity remains elusive, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, notably steam cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields. ODHP presents as a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, offering improved selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP significantly reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, potentially decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, eliminates thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an alternative, using propane as a cost-effective feedstock for potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks sufficient heat, potentially leading to extra coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges with high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant mitigates deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, offering advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers advantages by enabling lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, it has limitations, particularly low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, as seen in the ongoing search for a more selective catalyst in this process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, including catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. Direct dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is an attractive alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation. Catalysts active in non-oxidative PDH are also active in CO2PDH, with Cr and Ga-based materials showing the most promise.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy needs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, outpaces production by steam cracking and FCC, which favor ethylene. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit its effectiveness. ODHP offers a direct, exothermal route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, as highlighted by Lange [3]. New technologies must focus on catalyst performance and innovative process designs to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy use and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy for separation. N2O improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. Oxygen's high reactivity can cause rapid catalyst deactivation, necessitating robust catalysts. Oxidant selection is critical, affecting the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, offers an alternative by enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production, necessitating efficient methods. DDP's thermodynamic limits and high temperature requirements are addressed by ODHP, which uses CO2 as a mild oxidant. This reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate reactions without high temperatures. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to suppress complete oxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion. Despite advancements, these systems haven't matched the efficiency of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable petroleum-based methods, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Propylene yields, while promising, remain below levels required for industrial implementation, highlighting ongoing challenges in catalyst development and process optimization. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate over-oxidation, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient and direct route to propylene, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Controlled conditions and precise dosing are required to prevent over-oxidation and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, driving interest in ODHP. ODHP, with its thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, could surpass non-oxidative methods. Yet, it must tackle the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a significant hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption and low selectivity, which ODHP addresses by being more energy-efficient and selective. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause overoxidation and temperature control issues, despite its abundance and cost-effectiveness. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are needed to mitigate these problems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requiring careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the growing demand for propylene. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2, though more feasible, requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Selecting catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's heat are key challenges. Oxygen's role in side reactions complicates selectivity control in ODHP due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the potential of propane dehydrogenation processes like ODHP, which offer higher conversion and yield than non-oxidative methods. ODHP's use of CO2 as an oxidant aligns with chemical CO2 utilization strategies, but the specific challenges of using oxygen in ODHP are underexplored, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher reactivity, which reduces selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking leads to various by-products. ODHP aims to enhance conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, introduces safety concerns, impacting ODHP's commercial potential. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation remains elusive, hindering its commercialization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand. Current methods, such as steam cracking and dehydrogenation, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints but risks overoxidation to carbon oxides when using oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active catalysts, oxygen's role as an oxidant presents a significant challenge in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more efficient conversion process. However, it faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and cracking, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, avoiding overoxidation, lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and active species separation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents its own challenges, particularly in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting conversion. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, underlining the need for a selective catalyst. Molecular oxygen as an oxidant enables lower reaction temperatures but requires careful management to avoid total oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods like catalytic and steam cracking, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by low yields due to equilibrium constraints and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation is a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, though rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction is a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy costs, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic issues. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but CO2 as a soft oxidant offers a safer, milder solution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production in Western Europe, where ethylene is favored in steam cracking. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues highlight the need for new technologies. ODHP directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 by-product. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for economic viability in alkane-based chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges like high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene with lower energy requirements. However, ODHP's limitations, particularly in oxidant selection, are significant. Oxygen can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, prompting interest in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity and conversion at high temperatures, offering an alternative with distinct advantages. However, propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. This method presents a viable solution to current production challenges, with specific oxidant selection playing a crucial role.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring excessive temperatures for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, while suppressing over-oxidation and minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to address these issues but risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, enhance selectivity and conversion, though they haven't matched industrial yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, traditionally reliant on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, complex, and produce unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more efficient and direct route to propylene, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and precise control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to shale gas, prompting interest in ODHP. This method offers thermodynamic benefits and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive, have low selectivity, and depend on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and necessitates energy-demanding oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can cause temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these issues by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. Its use can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating hydrogen separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could improve propylene yields but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but requires a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause cracking and combustion, impacting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, suppressing over-oxidation and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods underscore the potential of ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unique challenges, underscoring the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, especially using oxygen, poses safety issues, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, faces high costs, energy demands, and reduced yields. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and emissions, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it an attractive alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a potentially more efficient conversion. However, it faces challenges in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive Pt catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke. ODHP offers a lower reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, reducing propylene yield. Using CO2 as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, minimize coke, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, but it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand necessitates alternatives to conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, with propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerging as a viable option. Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and conversion rates due to thermodynamic constraints, exacerbated by high-temperature side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a promising solution in PDH, utilizing CO2 to mitigate coke formation and potentially shifting the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidizing propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy demands, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, offering a favorable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and limitations due to thermodynamic constraints and coking in current production methods like steam cracking and FCC, highlight the need for alternatives. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, presenting a new set of challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases and co-products. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially energy-efficient route to propylene with fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. Oxidant selection is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures, boosting propane conversion but at the cost of reduced propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, driving the need for efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demands, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially reducing endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on costly and unsustainable non-oxidative processing, faces challenges. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this limitation, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce unwanted by-products. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is critical to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP, with its exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability, offers advantages over non-oxidative methods. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a key scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen use risks overoxidation and unwanted carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen increases selectivity but also costs. Oxygen's presence complicates temperature control, requiring precise management and suitable catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high operating temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, increases propene selectivity but also causes over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, worsened by the shift to ethane use, which decreases propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is constrained by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance yields but is limited to around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is excessively reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, and I2 reactions, while selective, are slow and require high temperatures, hindering industrial application. Bromine offers greater feasibility but necessitates a high propane to bromine ratio to prevent polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge is developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propene challenges current production methods, potentially compromising co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, with propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, poses safety concerns and process upsets, hindering ODHP's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy consumption, costs, and emissions. ODHP offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. However, using oxygen risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to growing demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, avoids these thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, safer but less energetic, can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation of propylene to carbon monoxide and dioxide, affecting selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, offering advantages over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips supply from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not equilibrium-limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, presents an alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, with a promoting effect through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2 but can deactivate rapidly due to coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers improvements by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and avoiding thermodynamic limitations. However, oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and FCC faces challenges meeting demand, especially in Western Europe, and is constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation [1][2]. ODHP directly addresses these issues by aligning with market demand and offering improved energy efficiency as an exothermal process [8]. However, it entails higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity and selectivity, is pivotal for the economic viability of alkane-based processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and emit significant greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route, with oxygen as an oxidant increasing propylene yields but risking deep oxidation and requiring energy for oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and mitigates deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher costs. The oxidant choice is crucial, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production is constrained by equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), especially using SO2 as an oxidant, enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 boosts propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating alternative methods. DDP's high temperature requirement limits its efficiency. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges: side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) uses an oxidant to initiate reactions, potentially overcoming endothermic issues and coke formation. However, oxygen risks overoxidation to CO and CO2. Catalysts, especially vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no system matches current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via non-oxidative processing of petroleum faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP struggles with low propylene yields and limited catalyst lifetime. Maintaining high selectivity to propylene under high propane conversion conditions is crucial for future development. The use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Recent studies suggest that using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, notably steam cracking, consumes high energy. ODHP is a more energy-efficient alternative but faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity, necessitating precise control to prevent over-oxidation and runaway reactions, increasing costs from air separation and precise dosing.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. ODHP offers an alternative, leveraging exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, struggle with high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, leading to carbon oxides and temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed, necessitating precise temperature control to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially leading to over-oxidation and decreased propene yields. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via SC and FCC faces challenges with low yields as propylene is a by-product. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate separation. ODHP offers improvements but is capped by propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and favorable only at high temperatures, and Br2 reactions, though more feasible, require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion. This highlights the need for on-purpose propylene production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their applicability. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it faces challenges, notably in oxidant selection, where using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control in ODHP more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the need for improved production methods, with ODHP offering higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative processes. This addresses the chemical CO2 utilisation challenge. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents undocumented challenges, a critical aspect needing further exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, with propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 C. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but shares similar issues, notably selectivity decline and propane cracking. Oxidant choice is critical, with oxygen presenting safety concerns. The elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity in propane oxydehydrogenation underscores these ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP is more energy-efficient and cost-effective, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions compared to steam cracking. However, oxygen decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, low selectivity, and economic strains. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, aims to address these by potentially offering more efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can enhance catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but may cause additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation. ODHP could lower temperatures due to its exothermic nature but struggles with overoxidation, impacting selectivity. CO2, as an oxidant, avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion, addressing ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods like catalytic and steam cracking, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by low yields and thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative, utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, favoring propylene production. Oxide catalysts, particularly those containing Cr or Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic limits. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, struggles to meet demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene is favored. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP directly produces propylene, aligning with market needs, and its exothermal nature boosts energy efficiency over endothermal processes. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Catalyst performance and innovative process designs are crucial for economic viability in alkane-based chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and emit greenhouse gases. ODHP offers a cleaner, more direct route to propylene, with oxygen increasing yields but risking deep oxidation. N2O as an oxidant enhances propene selectivity but may lower activity and incur higher costs. The oxidant choice is pivotal, affecting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production is limited by equilibrium constraints, which ODHP seeks to address. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity and propane conversion at high temperatures, demonstrating its potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating economic on-purpose methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring excessive temperatures for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant mitigates this by lowering operating temperatures and enhancing propane conversion via the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 curbs over-oxidation, reducing carbon oxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to address these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to enhance selectivity and mitigate overoxidation, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, as highlighted in a review by Cavani et al. and recent studies by Ovsitser et al.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions, increasing costs due to oxygen separation from air and the need for precise dosing.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap, driving interest in on-purpose methods like ODHP. ODHP boasts thermodynamic advantages and reduced coke formation, boosting efficiency over non-oxidative processes. Yet, it must tackle the over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, a significant scientific hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and have low selectivity, with a reliance on dwindling petroleum resources. ODHP presents a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can lead to overoxidation and temperature control issues, complicating ODHP. Precise temperature management is vital to prevent catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are key to ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP mitigates these issues by operating at lower temperatures and minimizing coke formation due to oxygen's presence, which enhances propene selectivity but also poses over-oxidation and safety hazards. H2S in the feedstock can further improve propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. However, oxygen's unselective reactions limit alkene selectivities, and selectivity decreases with higher conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yield issues. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for conversion and complicating propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to improve yields but is constrained by propylene's oxidation, achieving a maximum yield of about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are fast but non-selective; I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures; bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and large-scale, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, it faces challenges, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are crucial for propane activation under mild conditions, controlling selectivity and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 usage attractive for chemical CO2 utilization and syngas by-product production. However, using oxygen as an oxidant presents specific challenges not well-addressed in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP poses safety and process stability issues, affecting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive, costly, and generate byproducts. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective process, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high demand and limitations in traditional methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures but introduces the risk of overoxidation to carbon oxides when using oxygen, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen remains a significant challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but faces issues with propylene overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking, FCC, and DH faces challenges: endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP, using oxygen, offers lower temperatures and less coke but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Demand for propylene outstrips conventional production methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and high temperatures, causing side reactions and catalyst regeneration needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, enhances PDH by shifting equilibrium and removing coke, although catalyst deactivation from coke remains an issue. Catalysts containing Cr or Ga are most active and selective in PDH with CO2, but rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction is a limitation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's challenges include high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP mitigates these by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Using carbon dioxide as an oxidant enhances safety and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation issues [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can result in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. Oxygen as an ODHP oxidant can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, prompting interest in ODHP as an alternative. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the method's trade-offs. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are acknowledged but not elaborated upon.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand exceeds current production capacity, necessitating efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant alters the pathway, reducing temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP, by using an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues, particularly the endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to control overoxidation, improve selectivity, and sustain good conversion. Despite advancements, no catalytic system has equaled the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, using non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking, thus enhancing the efficiency and selectivity of ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP presents a more efficient route but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use in ODHP risks deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety hazards due to its reactivity. Oxygen separation from air adds to costs, and precise dosing is vital to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, avoiding coke deposition. However, it must address the challenge of over-oxidation to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and low selectivity challenges. ODHP is a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, leading to undesired byproducts. Oxygen's abundance and low cost are advantageous, but its use requires careful management to avoid issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but also causes over-oxidation, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's unselective combustion reactions lead to selectivity losses with increased conversion.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by ethane's preference in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to boost propylene yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and yield. Developing catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety is crucial. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane add to the selectivity challenge in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand necessitates alternatives to current production methods, which may affect co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield, with the added benefit of CO2 utilisation as a chemical feedstock. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents underexplored challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, introduces safety and process issues. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously remains elusive, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy costs and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially increasing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs and emissions compared to traditional methods. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces supply deficits due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity. Despite progress with redox-active transition metal oxide catalysts, the presence of oxygen can cause olefins to overoxidize into carbon oxides, impacting reactant use and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a cost-effective propane feedstock and efficient conversion, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant choice. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making dehydrogenation exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, effective in hydrogen consumption, lacks compensatory heat, potentially increasing coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges such as high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) reduces reaction temperatures but introduces the challenge of controlling propylene's fate due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant prevents deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional production methods, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation's low yields and high-temperature side reactions limit its effectiveness. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) in PDH offers a pathway to utilize CO2 and remove coke, but faces catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction. Oxide catalysts, especially Cr and Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but experience rapid deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP reduces energy use, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic issues. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity, but carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these, enhancing ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are constrained by thermodynamics and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct, exothermic route to propylene, improving energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and produce greenhouse gases and co-products. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route to propylene with fewer co-products. However, it has limitations, particularly in oxidant choice. Oxygen can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant selection is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses equilibrium limitations in propylene production by using SO2 as an oxidant, offering higher selectivity per pass at elevated temperatures. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, highlighting the trade-offs in oxidant selection.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand exceeds current production capabilities, necessitating efficient methods. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermally constrained, requiring excessive temperatures for substantial yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant reduces operating temperatures, increases propane conversion by consuming H2, and minimizes carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation encounters challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by incorporating an oxidant, aims to mitigate these, offering an exothermic process with minimized coke. Yet, oxygen use risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to curb overoxidation and boost selectivity, though none have equaled the yields of established olefin production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a critical chemical feedstock, faces production challenges due to high costs and sustainability issues with current non-oxidative methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's potential is limited by selectivity issues when using oxygen as an oxidant, leading to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially improving catalyst performance and process efficiency. Yields in propylene from ODHP have not yet reached levels interesting for industrial implementation, and maintaining high selectivity to propylene under high propane conversion conditions is a main direction for future development. The attainment of high selectivity to olefins via ODHP is limited by the use of O2 as an oxidant, due to the over-oxidation of both fed paraffins and produced olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant can potentially improve the process by turning it towards an exothermic character and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy consumption and complexity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, but using oxygen can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity necessitates diluents and precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation and control runaway reactions, increasing process costs.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas's low-cost ethene increases, creating a propylene supply-demand gap. ODHP, an on-purpose propene technology, offers advantages like favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking, are energy-intensive and rely on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP presents a more efficient and selective alternative, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, though abundant, risks overoxidation and hotspots, complicating temperature control and increasing coke formation, which deactivates catalysts. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods struggle with high energy consumption, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, mitigating coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially leading to over-oxidation and decreased propene yields. H2S in the feed mixture boosts propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use results in selectivity losses with increasing conversion, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by a declining propylene/ethylene ratio due to ethane's preference in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially boost propylene yields, but they are capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to its high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, and Br2 offers a more feasible option, but resolving polyhalogenation selectivity requires a higher propane to bromine ratio, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP faces limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially increasing the significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature, affecting its potential as an alternative method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation tendency and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but struggles with maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen selection in ODHP poses safety issues, hindering its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, costs, and environmental impacts. ODHP offers a more efficient alternative, potentially reducing energy consumption and costs. Using CO2 as an oxidant further cuts costs and emissions compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP presents an alternative, using propane as a cost-effective feedstock with potentially higher conversion efficiency. However, ODHP faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, effective in hydrogen consumption, lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers potential benefits by lowering reaction temperatures but struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, ODHP has a low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, underscoring the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outstrips conventional production methods like catalytic and steam cracking, which are limited by low yields and equilibrium constraints. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, though direct catalytic dehydrogenation is hindered by low conversion rates and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers an alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 to mitigate coke formation and shift the equilibrium, favoring propylene production. Oxide catalysts, notably those with Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but can deactivate due to coke and Cr reduction. Despite these challenges, CO2PDH presents a viable solution to the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges like high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP reduces energy needs, eliminates catalyst regeneration, and overcomes thermodynamic constraints. Oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking and FCC, faces growing demand and thermodynamic limitations, exacerbated by catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP, being exothermal, improves energy efficiency over endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. Innovative catalysts and process designs are crucial for ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods suffer from high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and yield dilution by co-products. ODHP presents a cleaner, more direct route with lower energy needs. Oxidant selection is crucial: oxygen boosts yields but risks deep oxidation and requires costly separation, while N2O enhances selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, albeit with lower activity and higher costs. Balancing these factors optimizes ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production's equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation are addressed by ODHP, which uses SO2 to enhance selectivity at high temperatures. However, SO2 addition, while boosting propane conversion, reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed, illustrating ODHP's potential and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outstrips current production, driving the need for economical on-purpose methods. DDP's thermodynamic limitations and high temperature requirements are addressed by ODHP, which uses CO2 as a mild oxidant to reduce operating temperatures and increase propane conversion. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 minimizes over-oxidation and carbon oxides production, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy needs, and catalytic deactivation. ODHP uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming these issues. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are explored to enhance selectivity and activity, though none have matched current industrial yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, currently based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and complex, with by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but faces challenges with oxygen use, leading to deep oxidation and reduced propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, and its separation from air increases costs. Precise oxygen dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Shale gas use in steam cracking boosts low-cost ethene, widening the propylene demand-supply gap. ODHP, an on-purpose propene technology, offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, a major challenge is avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, faces high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative, but it has limitations, especially with oxidant choice. Oxygen, though cheap and abundant, risks overoxidation and hotspots, requiring precise temperature control and advanced catalysts for successful ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, such as cracking and dehydrogenation, are energy-intensive, prone to coke formation, and require high temperatures. ODHP offers lower operating temperatures, reducing coke formation, but faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but can limit alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion, potentially over-oxidizing propene to carbon oxides and decreasing yields. Oxygen's use requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures and leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, primarily steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low selectivity and yields, further complicated by the shift to ethane feedstock, which decreases propylene/ethylene ratios. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically promising for its high selectivity and low investment, is hindered by thermodynamic limitations requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could potentially boost propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's further oxidation. Oxidant selection is pivotal: F2 is unsuitable due to its reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine offers a more feasible alternative, but polyhalogenation selectivity necessitates a higher propane to bromine ratio, constraining conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like steam cracking, is energy-intensive and centralized, hindering natural gas use in remote areas. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are essential for propane activation under mild conditions, controlling selectivity, and managing exothermic reactions to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the significance of dedicated processes like ODHP, which offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative dehydrogenation. ODHP's use of CO2 for chemical CO2 utilization and production of hydrogen and CO as by-products is attractive. However, the specific challenges associated with using oxygen in ODHP are underexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges in achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements but struggles with selectivity maintenance and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, notably oxygen use, poses safety issues, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces challenges like high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective process, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs, emissions, and energy use while promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are constrained by thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these limitations by operating at lower temperatures without thermodynamic restraints. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, converting olefins to carbon oxides, which reduces efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with high energy demands and low propylene selectivity, relying on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP, using propane as a feedstock, offers a potentially more efficient conversion. However, it faces limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, enhances catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but lacks the heat for endothermic dehydrogenation, potentially increasing coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production challenges include high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP, an exothermic process, reduces reaction temperatures but struggles with propylene selectivity due to overoxidation. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, FCC, and DH, faces challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower temperatures and reduced coke, but has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation, underlining the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production struggles to meet demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation has low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures promoting side reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 to mitigate coke formation, but rapid catalyst deactivation remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production via steam cracking faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, leading to poor selectivity. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, enhancing safety and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    