Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene from propane, potentially aligning better with market demand. As an exothermal process, ODHP improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by significantly increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text doesn't address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. It also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes these limitations (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no system matches the efficiency of current industrial technologies (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, are energy-intensive and complex. ODHP offers a more efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can reduce selectivity to propylene due to deep oxidation reactions, leading to CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and cause hotspots, complicating temperature control. Oxygen's abundance and low cost are advantageous, but its use requires precise temperature control to prevent overoxidation and potential coke formation, necessitating advanced catalysts and reactor designs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, reducing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP boosts propylene yields but introduces risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine is more feasible but requires a high propane-to-bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the requirement for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized process. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and side reactions, especially due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane, making selectivity control more challenging.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. ODHP using CO2 as an oxidant is promising for chemical CO2 utilisation, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP aims to address these by potentially offering higher conversion and selectivity, but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs, lower emissions, save energy, and promote selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use presents over-oxidation risks, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but it has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODP, using molecular oxygen, mitigates these issues by enabling lower temperatures and reducing coke. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation has low conversion rates and yields, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. CO2's promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium, enhancing propylene production through direct oxidation or hydrogen consumption. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these challenges, making ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. New technologies are needed to address these issues, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route with potentially lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation, while nitrous oxide improves selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may have higher costs and environmental impacts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically constrained, requiring excessively high temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures by releasing heat from the reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, and increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, addresses these issues, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant leads to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway risks. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing, face high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's selectivity to propylene is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, which can over-oxidize paraffins and olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route, directly converting propane to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen's use also increases costs due to separation from air and requires precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, it has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is crucial to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are essential for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, it leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane feedstock, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more feasible option but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilization producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products, addressing chemical CO2 utilisation. However, literature lacks exploration of oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with oxidant selection, where oxygen poses safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive, highlighting the ongoing quest for an effective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and byproduct production. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and saves energy compared to traditional methods, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen use presents over-oxidation risks, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous for its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, high catalyst costs, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Propylene demand outstrips production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an alternative, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke through the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Active oxide catalysts, notably Cr and Ga, are effective in PDH with CO2, but rapid deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits their use.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner route with lower energy needs. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, enhancing propane conversion. However, propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses these issues by reducing operating temperatures through the oxidation of abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and unlike molecular oxygen, it suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes some limitations by reducing reliance on high temperatures (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP, using oxygen, operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP boosts propylene yields, yet poses risks of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation is promising for its high selectivity and lower costs, but high temperatures needed for conversion complicate propylene separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields, yet it's limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but needs a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large, centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Key challenges include the need for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods, like impacting co-product yields, highlight the potential of ODHP. This process offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, addressing environmental concerns. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to selectivity decline. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and environmental issues. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy compared to traditional methods. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for the selectivity and yield of propylene in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer from overoxidation, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like propane dehydrogenation, face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature, but it struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant allows for these benefits but also presents the challenge of maintaining propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant alternative, offering environmental benefits and acting as a coke remover. CO2's promoting effect in PDH shifts the reaction equilibrium, enhancing propylene production, though rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic freedom. Oxygen's use in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking, leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. This highlights the need for new technologies that address these issues while efficiently producing propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene production, potentially reducing energy requirements and emissions. However, ODHP has its own advantages and limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation risks, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly affects the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, an advantage over conventional methods. While SO2 increases propane conversion, it leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating alternative techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, particularly through propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably supported vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, have been developed to suppress complete oxidation and enhance ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, these systems have not yet matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant, which could mitigate over-oxidation, turn the process exothermic, and potentially reduce catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability, but faces the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low propylene yields and selectivity. Ethane's preference in steam crackers further decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic nature of the reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand and issues with current production methods, such as steam cracking and catalytic cracking, highlight the need for dedicated processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. Utilising CO2 in ODHP is attractive for chemical CO2 utilisation, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety concerns. Commercializing propane oxydehydrogenation for propylene production remains challenging due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental impacts, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, enhancing selectivity. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, minimizes emissions, and saves energy compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use leads to propane over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is pivotal for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which suffer from thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these issues by operating at lower temperatures without thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers an alternative with propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, while safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, controlling propylene selectivity is difficult due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant can mitigate these issues by avoiding deep oxidation, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces production from conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, beneficial for PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect involves hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2. However, PDH with CO2 experiences rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene from propane, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient alternative. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. Oxidant selection is critical in ODHP, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP enhances selectivity at high temperatures, a key advantage over conventional methods. However, while SO2 increases propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing demand for propylene outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures exceeding 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers a solution by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate reactions at lower temperatures (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen's use also increases costs due to separation from air and necessitates precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, prompting interest in on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but also causes over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture improves propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, which decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, necessitating high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields, but faces challenges with propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, still requires optimization to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient process. However, it has its own challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Effective catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially making dedicated processes like propane dehydrogenation more significant. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, with CO2 as an oxidant further reducing costs and emissions. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, presenting an advantage. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing some of ODHP's limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, necessitating the search for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for these benefits but also presents the challenge of selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium constraints, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation poses a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is promising for PDH as it utilizes CO2 and aids in coke removal. Its effect can shift the PDH equilibrium favorably or directly oxidize propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. CO2, as a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these issues, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production. New technologies are needed to overcome these challenges, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, particularly using SO2 as an oxidant, which enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating economic on-purpose techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessively high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses these issues by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalyst deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to enhance selectivity and conversion, though none have matched the yields of current industrial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's selectivity to olefins is limited by the use of oxygen as an oxidant, which can over-oxidize paraffins and olefins to carbon oxides. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges like high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, direct route to propylene. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can cause deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic benefits, including exothermic reactions at lower temperatures, and prevents coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are advantages, but managing its risks is crucial for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but also causes over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic reaction and prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's unselective combustion reactions lead to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, face challenges due to low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while the growing polypropylene market increases propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements in propylene yields and selectivity but is constrained by propylene's consecutive oxidation, limiting yields to about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, while more feasible, require a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting their use in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, it has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, reducing propylene yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. The exothermic nature of the reaction must be managed to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, like steam and catalytic cracking, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, emerges as a promising alternative, offering higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative methods. ODHP using CO2 can facilitate chemical CO2 utilisation, producing syngas by-products. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with selectivity decline as conversion increases. Oxygen as an oxidant presents safety concerns and process upsets, impacting the method's commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and byproduct formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective process, potentially reducing costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances efficiency and selectivity, unlike oxygen, which risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) can potentially lower reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene overoxidation, which reduces selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene, a key raw material, outstrips production by conventional methods like catalytic and steam cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as an alternative, addressing the low conversion and yield issues of direct catalytic dehydrogenation, which is endothermic and thermodynamically limited. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and non-limited, but propylene selectivity remains a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. Its promoting effect, either through hydrogen consumption in the reverse water-gas shift reaction or direct propane oxidation, supports PDH. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and chromium reduction limits its effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and more readily available alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored [1]. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic constraints and coking issues limit alkane conversion [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene, aligning better with market demand. Its exothermal nature improves energy efficiency over endothermal processes [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production [13]. Catalyst performance, including activity for alkane conversion and selectivity to desired products, is crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct conversion, but risks deep oxidation and catalyst deactivation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures and increases propane conversion, though propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production, unlike molecular oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, mitigate these issues by suppressing complete oxidation and enhancing selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no catalytic system matches the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking. This approach aligns with the need for high selectivity and conversion in ODHP, as highlighted in literature reviews and recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complexity, and by-product formation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics for exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability by preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can also lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene and high yields but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, with increasing conversion, selectivity losses occur due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation, limiting propene yields to below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by declining propylene/ethylene ratios due to ethane preference. Propane dehydrogenation's high temperature requirement complicates product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical; F2 and Cl2 are unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues, while I2's slow reaction and high temperature requirement limit its industrial application. Bromine offers more feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large, centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge includes finding catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilisation producing syngas by-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges, underscoring the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher reactivity and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 C. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges. Oxidant selection, particularly oxygen, adds safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's goal of high conversion and selectivity remains elusive, impacting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further cut costs, lower emissions, save energy, and promote selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is key in determining propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which suffer from thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but presents its own issues, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, high catalyst costs, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant allows for these benefits but also presents this limitation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Direct dehydrogenation requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions and frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing CO2 and removing coke, shifting the equilibrium favorably. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction limits its effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and more practical alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation faces thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. Despite these challenges, ODHP presents a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by notably increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, SO2 addition boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are not discussed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures over 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers advantages by reducing operating temperatures, increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction, and minimizing carbon oxide production by suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by incorporating an oxidant, aims to mitigate these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being explored to enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation. Despite progress, no system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP struggles with selectivity to propylene due to over-oxidation when using oxygen, limiting industrial implementation. Recent studies suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate over-oxidation, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking, making ODHP a promising but still developing alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as highlighted by Quote 3.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and lead to hotspots, affecting temperature control. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are offset by these issues, necessitating precise temperature control and catalyst development to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. Over-oxidation to carbon oxides decreases propene yields, and reaction conditions must be controlled to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can boost propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with higher conversion, as propene re-adsorbs and oxidizes, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift towards ethane use in steam crackers, reducing the propylene/ethylene ratio. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically promising, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements in propylene yields and selectivity but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, it has its own challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while effective, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic nature of the reaction to ensure safety and selectivity control, especially considering propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity with increased conversion and managing propane cracking. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents safety concerns, impacting its commercialization potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene's fate, risking overoxidation to CO and CO2, reducing selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and frequent catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Yet, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODHP is safer, milder, and mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues further complicate matters. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. [1] [2] [3] [8] [13]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy needs and emissions. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation risk, but may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. Oxygen's high reactivity can also cause rapid catalyst deactivation, necessitating robust and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by significantly increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. SO2 addition boosts propane conversion, but propylene selectivities are lower than with pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses this by reducing operating temperatures through heat release and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermicity and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity and conversion. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face challenges including high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds cost, and precise dosing is needed to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like SC and FCC, struggle with low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Propane dehydrogenation, needing high temperatures for conversion, complicates propylene separation. ODHP offers higher propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and Br2 requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting their use in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own challenges, especially in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as an attractive feature, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant presents safety concerns. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges like high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP presents its own challenges, particularly in controlling the fate of propylene, as it risks overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide, lowering propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity at high conversion rates, necessitating a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is an emerging alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these by requiring less energy, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, can address these issues, offering a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to favoring ethylene production and facing thermodynamic constraints that limit alkane conversion and cause rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by directly producing propylene from propane, aligning better with market demand. Its exothermal nature improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference between feed and product, and CO2 production adds to environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner and more energy-efficient route to propylene. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses the equilibrium limitation of dehydrogenation in propylene production. Using SO2 as an oxidant increases propane conversion and selectivity per pass at high temperatures, though propylene selectivities are lower compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperatures, exceeding 973 K for significant yields. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations (Quote 2). However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably those with high thermal stability and favorable reducibility, are crucial for suppressing complete oxidation and maintaining selectivity and conversion (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are advantages, but managing its effects is crucial for successful ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like cracking and dehydrogenation face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke formation. Oxygen's role as an oxidant in ODHP promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. The presence of oxygen can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures and manage the exothermic reaction. Oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields is counterbalanced by risks of over-oxidation and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's selectivity promotion for propene is offset by selectivity losses with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements in propylene yields and selectivity but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical; F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the requirement for large-scale centralized plants. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, particularly ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking yields various by-products. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance conversion and selectivity, yet faces similar challenges, especially with propylene's reactivity. Oxygen selection as an oxidant introduces safety concerns. Achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity remains elusive, impacting ODHP's commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, costs, and environmental impact. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, with CO2 as an oxidant reducing costs and emissions. However, using O2 risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation processes requiring high energy input, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures, making it a promising alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a lower reaction temperature but risks overoxidation of propylene. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by enabling lower reaction temperatures and inhibiting coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP reduces coke formation but also results in low propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that foster side reactions and necessitate catalyst regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, but over-oxidation challenges propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing greenhouse gas and removing coke, shifting the reaction equilibrium favorably. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke and chromium reduction remains an issue.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, leading to poor selectivity. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to a preference for ethylene and limitations in dehydrogenation processes. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns. New technologies are needed to address these issues, focusing on catalyst performance and innovative process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene production with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. However, ODHP has its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion to propylene and carbon dioxide, but it also risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation risk, albeit with lower activity due to slower catalyst reoxidation. N2O's use also presents challenges like higher production costs and environmental concerns due to its greenhouse gas properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, offering an advantage over conventional methods. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessive temperatures for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion, though none have matched current industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability concerns. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these issues. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, it has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a demand-supply gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. It also risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields. Careful control is needed to manage the exothermic nature of the reaction and prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking yields low propylene selectivity and is declining due to ethane preference in steam crackers, despite increasing demand from the polypropylene market. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 is slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, highlighting a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets, impacting ODHP's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP can further reduce costs, lower emissions, and promote selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is crucial for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a key petrochemical feedstock, faces a supply deficit due to high demand. Current production methods, including steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an attractive alternative due to its exothermic nature, which avoids thermodynamic limits at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the reaction exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like FCC and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, offering a two-step pathway to enhance propylene production and utilizing CO2 as a greenhouse gas. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr(VI) reduction limits its effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Yet, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, impacting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    