Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, and how does oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) address these issues while presenting its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection and the specific challenges associated with using oxygen?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Challenges in propylene production and the potential of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) as an alternative method: advantages, limitations, and the role of oxidants'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to favoring ethylene production and facing thermodynamic constraints that limit alkane conversion and cause rapid catalyst deactivation from coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process compared to endothermal alternatives. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. This highlights the need for new technologies that address these issues while matching market demands more closely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy requirements and fewer co-products. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct propane conversion, but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can improve propene selectivity and reduce deep oxidation, but may lower activity and has higher production costs. The oxidant choice is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, a significant advantage over conventional methods. However, while SO2 increases propane conversion, it reduces propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating new techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, exceeding 973 K for significant yields. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 also boosts propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations like endothermic nature and coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to suppress overoxidation and improve selectivity and conversion (Quote 4 and 5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking. Yields in propene from ODHP have shown promise but are still far from being industrially viable, with the highest reported yield under O2 lean-conditions being around 40%.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and forming CO and CO2. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air adds to the cost, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, reliant on steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to abundant low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology, with advantages over non-oxidative methods due to favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and cause hotspots in the catalyst bed, affecting temperature control and potentially leading to coke formation and catalyst deactivation. Oxygen's abundance and cost-effectiveness are advantages, but its use requires precise temperature control and the development of suitable catalysts and reactor designs to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke formation. Oxygen's use as an oxidant in ODHP promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP boosts propylene yields but poses risks of over-oxidation and explosive conditions. H2S in the feed can enhance propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's selectivity for propene is beneficial, yet extensive selectivity losses occur with higher conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the declining propylene/ethylene ratio from increased ethane use. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures and complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements in propylene yields and selectivity but is constrained by the oxidation of propylene to oxygenated products, limiting yields to around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical, with F2 and Cl2 being unsuitable due to reactivity and selectivity issues, I2 reactions being slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine offering more feasibility but requiring a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large, centralized plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge with oxygen includes the requirement for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more difficult in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as an attractive feature, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher reactivity to oxidation and propane cracking at high temperatures. ODHP offers potential improvements by targeting higher conversion and selectivity, yet faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and avoiding propane cracking. Oxidant choice, notably oxygen, introduces safety concerns, impacting the method's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use can lead to propane over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it mitigates deep oxidation, decreases coke formation, and enhances propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging alternative. Direct dehydrogenation is endothermic and thermodynamically unfavorable, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and non-equilibrium limited, but over-oxidation hinders propylene selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and Cr(VI) reduction remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and propane dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and over-oxidation, leading to poor selectivity. Carbon dioxide, a safer and more readily available soft oxidant, can mitigate these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle with the growing demand for propylene, especially in Western Europe, and thermodynamic constraints in dehydrogenation that limit alkane conversion and cause rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) directly produces propylene from propane, aligning better with market demand and improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant results in higher energy losses and fixed costs, and CO2 production adds environmental and economic considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct route to propylene production with potentially lower energy requirements and emissions. However, ODHP has its own advantages and limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Oxygen as an oxidant can increase propylene yields due to its higher reactivity, but it also poses risks of deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and necessitates robust catalysts. Nitrous oxide (N2O) offers higher propylene selectivity and lower catalyst deactivation rates, but it has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation. ODHP, using SO2 as an oxidant, overcomes this by significantly increasing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 to the feed boosts propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperatures, exceeding 973 K for significant yields. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen and releasing heat. CO2 also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 and suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking. This aligns with the goal of maintaining high propylene selectivity under conditions that promote high propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots in the catalyst bed. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and avoid combustion of desirable dehydrogenation products. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields is counterbalanced by risks of explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the declining propylene/ethylene ratio from increased ethane use. Propane dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limitations require high temperatures, complicating product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, with a reported maximum yield of 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics; Cl2 reactions are non-selective and potentially explosive; I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures; bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly in oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. The challenge includes finding catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety, especially due to propane's weaker CH and CC bonds compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to reduced co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation strategy, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, with propylene's higher reactivity leading to declining selectivity as conversion increases. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing various by-products. ODHP offers potential advantages over traditional methods by potentially increasing conversion and selectivity, but faces similar challenges with selectivity and propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, presents safety concerns and process upsets. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercialization potential remains elusive due to these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental impacts, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further cuts costs, lowers emissions, saves energy, and avoids over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use can decrease propylene selectivity by over-oxidizing propane to CO2. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical propane feedstock and potentially efficient conversion. However, it has limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) could mitigate these issues by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, making it a preferred alternative to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, underscoring the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low conversion and yield, exacerbated by equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative, overcoming thermodynamic limitations, but faces the challenge of over oxidation, affecting propylene selectivity. Soft oxidants, notably CO2, emerge as viable options in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation, though rapid catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, providing a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, particularly in Western Europe, as they favor ethylene production [1]. Dehydrogenation processes are limited by thermodynamic constraints and suffer from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference between feed and product [13], and CO2 production adds to environmental concerns. The catalyst's performance, including activity for alkane conversion and selectivity to desired products, is key to the economic attractiveness of alkane-based chemical processes [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts product selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, prompting exploration of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to address these issues. This method, particularly exothermic and with reduced coke formation, is advantageous. However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, have been explored to enhance selectivity and conversion while suppressing complete oxidation. Despite progress, no system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation reactions, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring diluents and careful control to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods with exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can also lead to temperature control issues and potential coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges and ensure successful ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen, as an oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It also risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by altering the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, as propene re-adsorbs and oxidizes, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low propylene yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers further decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, constraining single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large centralized plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can cause side reactions like cracking and combustion, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Using oxygen requires catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased interest in dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as an attractive feature, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking becomes significant, producing various by-products. ODHP aims to address these issues by potentially offering higher conversion and selectivity, but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, presents safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing emissions and saving energy. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits by promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production, critical for the petrochemical industry, faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand and limitations in current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which suffer from thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes these constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while attractive for lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges like high operating temperatures, precious metal catalyst costs, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene's fate due to overoxidation risks, reducing selectivity. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, as noted in Quote 2, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Quote 1 underscores the limitations of traditional methods, emphasizing the demand for alternatives like ODP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, prompting interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion rates due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using oxygen is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but over-oxidation of propane remains a challenge. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is promising for utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke and the reduction of chromium in catalysts are issues in PDH with CO2.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy needs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic limits. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic constraints. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant mitigates these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and face thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation issues. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene with improved energy efficiency due to its exothermal nature, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs, and CO2 production adds environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct route to propylene with potentially lower energy needs and emissions. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, notably using SO2 as an oxidant, which enhances selectivity per pass at high temperatures. While SO2 increases propane conversion, it leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address specific challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing demand for propylene outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring excessively high temperatures for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant addresses these issues by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant introduces issues like overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are explored to mitigate these, due to their stability and surface area (Quote 4). Despite progress, no system has matched current industrial yields (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like cracking and dehydrogenation face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, thanks to oxygen's inhibitory effect on coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant, promotes selectivity for propene but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion reactions. It can lead to over-oxidation of propene to carbon oxides, reducing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields lower than 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, as propylene is a by-product. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand increases the need for dedicated propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically advantageous, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields, but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are selective but slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers feasibility but requires a high propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization in remote areas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Challenges include the need for efficient catalysts that activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand highlights the limitations of current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilization method, producing syngas by-products. However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and selectivity due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and increased propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen's use as an oxidant presents safety concerns, impacting the method's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation of olefins to carbon oxides, causing inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling reserves, and rising costs. ODHP offers an economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and enhances propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic alternative, overcoming thermodynamic limitations but faces selectivity issues due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, offers a promising approach in PDH, utilizing CO2 and mitigating coke formation, though catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. The presence of CO2 shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene yield through a two-step pathway or direct oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy needs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy requirements, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and more readily available oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product of alkane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, significant greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient, and cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts the reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations in dehydrogenation reactions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an alternative, leveraging SO2 as an oxidant to notably increase selectivity per pass at high temperatures. While SO2 boosts propane conversion, it leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. The text does not explore the challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. Introducing CO2 as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes some limitations by initiating the reaction without solely relying on high temperatures (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to mitigate these issues by enhancing selectivity and conversion while maintaining thermal stability (Quotes 4-5). Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, as an oxidant, can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Its reactivity with hydrocarbons raises safety concerns, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen's use also increases process costs due to separation from air and requires precise dosing to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, it must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing oil reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can cause hotspots, complicating temperature control, and may result in coke formation, deactivating the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success, balancing oxygen's benefits of abundance and cost with its risks.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, promotes propene selectivity but also causes over-oxidation to carbon oxides, limiting yields. Careful control is needed to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking (SC) and fluidic catalytic cracking (FCC) faces challenges due to low propylene yields and selectivity, exacerbated by the declining propylene/ethylene ratio as ethane replaces naphtha in steam crackers. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically advantageous, is limited by thermodynamics, requiring high temperatures that complicate hydrogen and unreacted propane separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is limited by propylene's consecutive oxidation, achieving a maximum yield of about 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to high reactivity and unfavorable thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, limiting industrial application. Bromine reactions are more feasible but require a higher propane to bromine ratio to address polyhalogenation selectivity, limiting single-pass propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, introduces safety concerns and process upsets. Propane oxydehydrogenation's goal of combining high conversion and selectivity remains elusive, with commercialization far from realized.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing emissions and saving energy. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits. However, oxygen use risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, reducing reactant efficiency and process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy demands, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, though safer, doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, expensive precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and promotes propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct catalytic dehydrogenation has low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a soft oxidant, is a promising alternative in PDH, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. Its promoting effect can shift the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidize propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but face deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, catalyst regeneration needs, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy requirements, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limitations. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, can mitigate these issues, making ODHP a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation's thermodynamic limits and coking issues hinder efficiency. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as an exothermal process. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a key environmental and economic concern.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route with fewer co-products. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, but may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, prompting exploration of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) with CO2 as a mild oxidant. CO2 alters the dehydrogenation pathway, reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike O2, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these by using an oxidant to initiate the reaction, potentially overcoming limitations. However, oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and improve selectivity, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields yet.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant has been proposed to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene but has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Using oxygen in ODHP can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution, with advantages like exothermic reactions at lower temperatures and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to more stable compounds.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and low selectivity. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Oxygen's presence can also lead to hotspots and temperature control issues, potentially reducing propylene yield and causing catalyst deactivation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial to mitigate these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy consumption, significant coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures, which reduces coke formation. Oxygen, as an oxidant in ODHP, promotes selectivity for propene but also poses risks of over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. The addition of H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges, including low propylene yields and selectivity. Ethane's preference in steam crackers decreases propylene output, while demand rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at 30% due to propylene's oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 is slow and requires high temperatures, and bromine, while more feasible, needs a higher propane ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large plants, limiting remote gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, control selectivity, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane pose a greater selectivity challenge in ODHP compared to ethane.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, making it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges that are underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP aims to improve conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity due to propylene's reactivity and increased propane cracking at higher temperatures. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and byproduct generation. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy compared to traditional methods. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits. However, using oxygen can lead to over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant significantly affects propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, avoids over-oxidation but doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Using CO2 as an oxidant instead of oxygen can mitigate deep oxidation, decrease coke formation, and enhance propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) mitigates these issues by allowing lower reaction temperatures and reducing coke formation. However, ODHP has limitations, notably low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH is advantageous, utilizing CO2 and removing coke. However, PDH with CO2 faces rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and more available soft oxidant, mitigates these issues.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, where ethylene production is favored. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking, leading to catalyst deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and increased fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product. Catalyst performance is crucial for the economic viability of alkane-based chemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields but risks deep oxidation to carbon dioxide and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, enhancing propane conversion. However, this leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed. Oxygen's specific challenges in ODHP are not addressed in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand outpaces current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures and increases propane conversion by consuming H2. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by initiating reactions with an oxidant, addresses these issues. However, using oxygen can lead to overoxidation and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based oxides, are studied to mitigate these, though none have matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, as it is exothermic. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting olefin selectivity. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant could mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and complex processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, forming CO and CO2, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, necessitating diluents and controlled conditions to prevent runaway reactions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of over-oxidizing propene to CO and CO2, as highlighted by Quote 3. Quote 2 underscores ODHP's potential to improve efficiency over non-oxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, it has limitations, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while cheap and abundant, can cause overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and lead to temperature control issues due to hotspots. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, enhances propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. H2S in the feed can improve propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically constrained, necessitating high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) aims to enhance propylene yields but is limited by propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products, capping yields at around 30%. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, and I2 reactions, though selective, are slow and require high temperatures. Bromine offers a more feasible option, but polyhalogenation selectivity issues limit propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilisation as a chemical CO2 utilisation strategy, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Challenges in propylene production include achieving high propane conversion and selectivity, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At elevated temperatures, propane cracking yields various by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges, especially with oxidant selection, where oxygen poses safety concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental issues, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use compared to traditional methods, promoting selective dehydrogenation. However, oxygen as an oxidant risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. The choice of oxidant is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), an exothermic process, overcomes thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to overoxidation, causing inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and economic pressures. ODHP offers a more economical feedstock and potentially efficient conversion, but presents its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen can lower reaction temperatures and make the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation and side reactions. CO2, while safer, struggles to compensate for the endothermic nature of dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high operating temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in lower propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an alternative, but faces challenges like low conversion and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity is an issue due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers benefits by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. However, PDH with CO2 leads to rapid catalyst deactivation from coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing carbon dioxide as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking [2]. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a direct route to propylene with improved energy efficiency, as it is exothermal compared to endothermal dehydrogenation [8]. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP results in higher energy losses and fixed costs due to the combustion heat difference and CO2 production [13].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially energy-efficient route to propylene with fewer co-products. However, ODHP has its own issues, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen can boost propylene yields due to direct propane conversion but risks deep oxidation to CO2 and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. Oxygen's high reactivity can also cause rapid catalyst deactivation, necessitating robust catalyst development. The choice of oxidant significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass at high temperatures, enhancing propane conversion. However, this leads to lower propylene selectivities compared to pure propane feed, illustrating the method's advantages and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high temperatures, exceeding 973 K for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic limitations, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to address these issues, potentially overcoming endothermic nature and coke formation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins to CO and CO2, and reaction runaway. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress complete oxidation and improve ODH activity and selectivity, though none have matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. Proposals suggest using CO2 as a mild oxidant to mitigate this issue, potentially turning the process exothermic and benefiting catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons poses safety risks, requiring diluents and controlled conditions. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability over non-oxidative methods, but faces the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2. This technology is exothermic at lower temperatures and prevents coke deposition, yet must overcome facile over-oxidation to be viable.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, low propylene selectivity, and dependence on depleting oil reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation, forming unwanted carbon oxides, and requires costly oxygen separation from air. Precise temperature control is essential to prevent hotspots and coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are critical for ODHP's success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high-temperature requirements. ODHP mitigates these by operating at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but limits alkene selectivities due to unselective combustion. It can over-oxidize propene to carbon oxides, decreasing yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosions. Oxygen's effectiveness in ODHP promotes high propylene yields, yet poses risks like explosive mixtures and over-oxidation. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity, likely by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's use leads to selectivity losses with increased conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking, struggle with low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers decreases the propylene/ethylene ratio, while demand for propylene rises. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine reactions, though more feasible, need a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and centralized, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions, suppress over-oxidation, and manage the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilisation as an attractive feature, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide as by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not fully explored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher susceptibility to oxidation leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At higher temperatures, propane cracking becomes significant, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces similar challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxygen selection as an oxidant in ODHP introduces safety concerns, impacting process reliability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and reduced yields due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and saves energy compared to steam cracking, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen as an oxidant leads to propane over-oxidation to CO2, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits for propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like FCC and steam cracking, face challenges including high operating temperatures, costly precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, addressing key limitations of current methods and ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation but suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, emphasizing the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet demand due to low yields and equilibrium limitations. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an alternative, but it faces challenges like low conversion and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, yet propylene selectivity is an issue due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an interesting solution by utilizing CO2 and removing coke, promoting the reaction through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy needs, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy use, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic issues. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide, a safer and milder oxidant, mitigates these problems, making it a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in Western Europe, and are limited by thermodynamic constraints and catalyst deactivation due to coking. ODHP offers a direct route to produce propylene from propane, potentially aligning better with market demand. Its exothermal nature improves energy efficiency compared to endothermal processes. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a main by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner, and energy-efficient route to propylene production. Oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can boost propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation from air. Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice is critical, balancing yield, catalyst stability, and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "ODHP addresses the equilibrium limitation of propylene production by offering higher selectivity per pass, especially with SO2 as an oxidant at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but decreases propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is limited by high energy requirements, needing temperatures above 973 K for significant yields. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using CO2 as a mild oxidant offers a solution by reducing operating temperatures and increasing propane conversion through the reverse water gas shift reaction. Unlike molecular oxygen, CO2 suppresses over-oxidation, minimizing carbon oxides production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via propane dehydrogenation faces challenges like side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy demand, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 1). Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, overcomes some limitations, offering an exothermic process with reduced coke formation (Quote 2). However, using oxygen as an oxidant risks overoxidation to CO and CO2 and reaction runaway (Quote 3). Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to suppress overoxidation and enhance selectivity (Quotes 4 and 5). Despite progress, no system matches the yields of current industrial technologies (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can limit selectivity to olefins due to over-oxidation to carbon oxides. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and improving catalyst coking. Yields in propene from ODHP have shown potential but remain below industrial interest levels, highlighting the need for further development in catalysts and reactor configurations to maintain high selectivity under conditions leading to high propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, complex processes, and by-product formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and direct route to propylene, addressing these issues. However, ODHP has its own limitations, particularly with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to deep oxidation, reducing propylene selectivity and posing safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is crucial to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers an on-purpose propene technology with advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient process with higher propylene selectivity. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen use can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, while molecular oxygen boosts selectivity but increases costs. Oxygen's use can cause hotspots in the catalyst bed, complicating temperature control. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's success. Precise temperature control is needed to prevent hotspots and avoid coke formation, which can deactivate the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods like cracking and dehydrogenation face challenges including high energy consumption, coke formation, and high temperature requirements. ODHP addresses these by operating at lower temperatures and reducing coke formation due to oxygen's presence. Oxygen is a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, but unselective combustion reactions limit alkene selectivities. Oxygen can cause over-oxidation to carbon oxides, decreasing propene yields, and requires careful control to prevent explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed mixture enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. Despite oxygen's effectiveness in promoting high propylene yields, it leads to selectivity losses with increasing conversion, due to propene re-adsorption and oxidation to carbon oxides, resulting in yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges, including low propylene selectivity and yields as by-products. Ethane's preference in steam crackers has reduced the propylene/ethylene ratio, while growing polypropylene demand increases the need for dedicated propylene production. Propane dehydrogenation, though theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene yields but is capped at about 30% due to propylene's consecutive oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is too reactive, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and only favorable at high temperatures, and bromine is more feasible but requires a higher propane to bromine ratio to avoid polyhalogenation, limiting single-pass conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, are energy-intensive and require large-scale plants, limiting remote natural gas utilization. ODHP offers a decentralized, potentially more energy-efficient alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene yield and selectivity. Efficient catalysts are needed to activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation. Managing the exothermic reaction is crucial to prevent overheating and ensure safety. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased significance of dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield compared to non-oxidative methods, with CO2 utilization as a by-product, making it an attractive chemical CO2 utilisation method. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents specific challenges not well-documented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, as propylene's higher reactivity leads to declining selectivity with increased conversion. At temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius, propane cracking increases, producing undesired by-products. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces similar challenges, especially with oxidant choice, where oxygen presents safety issues. Propane oxydehydrogenation's commercial potential remains unfulfilled, highlighting the elusive goal of combining high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, environmental issues, and byproduct production. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient, cost-effective, and selective process. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP reduces costs, emissions, and energy use, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Oxygen, however, risks over-oxidation, decreasing propylene selectivity. Oxidant choice is critical for propylene yield and selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including supply deficits due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in propane conversion, and catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on diminishing oil reserves. ODHP offers a solution by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially regarding oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, improves catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges like high operating temperatures, expensive catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a solution by potentially lowering reaction temperatures due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP struggles with controlling propylene selectivity due to overoxidation risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a preferred oxidant over oxygen, as it can prevent deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and enhance propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges like endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using oxygen as an oxidant, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Conventional propylene production methods, like catalytic and steam cracking, struggle to meet growing demand, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures that cause side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is an exothermic, non-equilibrium-limited alternative, but propylene selectivity is a challenge due to over-oxidation. Soft oxidants, like CO2, offer potential benefits, including greenhouse gas utilization and coke removal. CO2's promoting effect can shift the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidize propane to propylene. Oxide catalysts, notably those containing Cr or Ga, are active in PDH with CO2 but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation and Cr reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant mitigates these issues, offering a safer and milder alternative.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet growing demand, especially in regions like Western Europe, where propylene demand outpaces ethylene. Dehydrogenation is limited by thermodynamics and coking, leading to catalyst deactivation. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it is exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation and cracking. However, using oxygen in ODHP increases energy losses and fixed costs due to CO2 production, a by-product. Catalyst performance is crucial for economic viability, and innovative process designs are needed to enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face high energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and co-product dilution. ODHP offers a more direct, potentially cleaner route with lower energy needs. However, it has its own challenges, notably in oxidant selection. Oxygen boosts propylene yields but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive separation. Nitrous oxide improves selectivity but may lower activity and has higher costs and environmental concerns. The oxidant choice significantly impacts reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP aims to overcome. Using SO2 as an oxidant in ODHP boosts selectivity per pass, especially at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring temperatures exceeding 973 K for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing abstracted hydrogen and releasing heat. It also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation and carbon oxide production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by introducing an oxidant, aims to overcome these issues. However, using oxygen can lead to overoxidation and reaction instability. Catalysts, notably vanadium-based and mixed-metal oxides, are studied to control overoxidation and enhance selectivity, though none have yet matched industrial olefin production yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, relying on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, faces high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP struggles with selectivity to olefins when using oxygen as an oxidant, due to over-oxidation. Using CO2 as a mild oxidant can mitigate this, turning the process exothermic and potentially reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but has limitations, especially with oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing propylene selectivity, and poses safety risks due to its reactivity with hydrocarbons. Oxygen separation from air increases costs, and precise dosing is needed to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, motivating on-purpose propene technologies like ODHP. ODHP offers advantages over non-oxidative methods, including favorable thermodynamics and enhanced catalyst stability. However, it must overcome the challenge of preventing propene's over-oxidation to CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low selectivity, and reliance on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's affordability and abundance are offset by the need for precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and the risk of overoxidation, which can reduce propylene yield and cause coke formation, deactivating the catalyst. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like cracking and dehydrogenation, face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high operational temperatures. ODHP offers a solution by operating at lower temperatures due to oxygen's presence, which inhibits coke formation. Oxygen is a preferred oxidant for its selectivity for propene, but it also leads to over-oxidation, decreasing yields, and requires careful management to avoid explosive mixtures. H2S addition enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway and suppressing over-oxidation. However, oxygen's unselective reactions limit alkene selectivities, and extensive selectivity losses occur with increasing conversion, resulting in propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges due to low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift towards ethane use, reducing propylene output. Propane dehydrogenation, while theoretically ideal, is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers potential improvements but is capped at about 30% yield due to propylene's further oxidation. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine, though more feasible, still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large centralized plants, limiting natural gas reserve utilization. ODHP offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Selecting catalysts that efficiently activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction's safety are specific challenges. The weaker CH and CC bonds in propane compared to ethane make selectivity control more challenging in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, which may compromise co-product yields. Propane dehydrogenation, notably ODHP, offers higher propane conversion and propene yield. ODHP using CO2 can be a promising CO2 utilisation method, producing syngas by-products. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents unexplored challenges, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity over traditional methods but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity with increased conversion and managing propane cracking. The choice of oxidant, particularly oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy and cost, environmental impacts, and reduced yield due to byproducts. ODHP offers a more efficient and selective alternative, potentially lowering costs and emissions. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits by saving energy and promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen's use can decrease propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges including a supply deficit due to high demand, thermodynamic limits in dehydrogenation requiring high energy input, and rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low process selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling oil reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making reactions exothermic, risks over-oxidation and side reactions, challenging olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without over-oxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat for the endothermic dehydrogenation and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces challenges including high temperatures, costly catalysts, and catalyst deactivation. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by reducing reaction temperatures, but it struggles with controlling propylene overoxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as an oxidant avoids deep oxidation, reduces coke formation, and favors propane conversion, making it a preferred choice over oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges including endothermic reactions, coke formation, and thermodynamic constraints limiting alkane conversion. ODHP offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it has low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, highlighting the need for a selective catalyst. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP allows for lower temperatures but results in low selectivity, emphasizing the ongoing search for a more selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outstrips production from conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and equilibrium limitations, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) as a soft oxidant in PDH offers an intriguing solution, utilizing CO2 and potentially enhancing propylene yield through hydrogen consumption or direct propane oxidation. However, PDH with CO2 faces catalyst deactivation from coke formation and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers lower energy use, no catalyst regeneration, and avoids thermodynamic limits. Yet, O2 in ODHP risks flammability and over-oxidation, affecting selectivity. Using CO2 as a safer, milder oxidant mitigates these issues, enhancing ODHP's potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, struggle to meet the growing demand, especially in Western Europe, due to favoring ethylene production and facing thermodynamic constraints and coking issues. ODHP offers a direct route to propylene, improving energy efficiency as it's exothermal, unlike endothermal dehydrogenation. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase energy losses and fixed costs, with CO2 production adding environmental and economic concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2007.05.009"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more direct and potentially cleaner route to propylene production. Using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can increase propylene yields due to direct conversion to propylene and carbon dioxide, but risks deep oxidation and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation. Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant improves propene selectivity and reduces deep oxidation risk, though it may lower activity and has higher production costs. The choice of oxidant is critical, impacting reaction pathway, product selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production faces equilibrium limitations, which ODHP addresses by using SO2 as an oxidant, enhancing selectivity per pass at high temperatures. However, adding SO2 increases propane conversion but reduces propylene selectivity compared to pure propane feed. The text does not address challenges with oxygen as an ODHP oxidant.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(77)90228-7"},
{"DOC": "Rapidly growing propylene demand outstrips current production methods, necessitating more efficient techniques. Direct dehydrogenation of propane (DDP) is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures for significant yields. CO2, as a mild oxidant in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reduces operating temperatures by oxidizing hydrogen from propane and releasing heat. It also increases propane conversion by consuming H2 through the reverse water gas shift reaction, unlike molecular oxygen which promotes over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-03793-w"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via propane dehydrogenation, faces challenges including side reactions, thermodynamic constraints, high energy requirements, and catalytic deactivation due to coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which uses an oxidant to initiate the reaction, aims to overcome these issues. However, using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation of olefins and reaction runaway. Catalysts, particularly vanadium-based oxides and mixed-metal oxides, are being studied to suppress complete oxidation and improve ODH activity and selectivity. Despite progress, no catalytic system has matched the yields of current industrial olefin production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp410750c"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, based on non-oxidative processing of petroleum, face high costs and sustainability issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher energy efficiency and process simplicity, addressing these challenges. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to over-oxidation, limiting selectivity to olefins. The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is proposed to mitigate this, potentially turning the process exothermic and reducing catalyst coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CY00998G"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy use and complex processes. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient route to propylene, but using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to CO and CO2 formation, reducing selectivity to propylene. Oxygen's reactivity with hydrocarbons necessitates careful control to prevent runaway reactions, and its separation from air increases costs. Precise oxygen dosing is required to avoid over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1134/S0023158418060010"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production, via steam cracking, faces a supply-demand gap due to increased low-cost ethene from shale gas, as noted in quote 1. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a promising alternative, with thermodynamic advantages and enhanced catalyst stability, preventing coke deposition, as per quote 2. However, ODHP must overcome the challenge of avoiding over-oxidation of propene to CO and CO2, as highlighted in quote 3.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and dependency on diminishing petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a more energy-efficient and selective alternative. However, ODHP's use of oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation, forming undesired carbon oxides, and requires energy-intensive oxygen separation from air. Oxygen's presence can cause hotspots, complicating temperature control and risking catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Suitable catalysts and reactor designs are crucial for ODHP's successful implementation, balancing oxygen's cost-effectiveness with its potential to reduce propylene yield and introduce byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00551"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges including high energy use, coke formation, and high temperatures. ODHP operates at lower temperatures, reducing coke formation. Oxygen, a preferred oxidant, boosts propene selectivity but risks over-oxidation to carbon oxides and explosive mixtures. H2S in the feed enhances propylene selectivity by modifying the reaction pathway. Oxygen's unselective combustion limits alkene selectivities, especially with increasing conversion, leading to selectivity losses and propene yields below 30%.", "Doi": "10.1080/17415990412331327909"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production via steam cracking and fluidic catalytic cracking faces challenges with low selectivity and yields, exacerbated by the shift to ethane use and growing propylene demand. Propane dehydrogenation offers high selectivity but is thermodynamically limited, requiring high temperatures that complicate product separation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) could enhance yields but is capped at around 30% due to propylene's oxidation to oxygenated products. Oxidant selection is critical: F2 is unsuitable due to reactivity and thermodynamics, Cl2 reactions are non-selective, I2 reactions are slow and require high temperatures, and bromine offers more feasibility but still faces polyhalogenation selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201200913"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, face challenges due to high energy consumption and the need for large-scale plants, limiting remote natural gas reserve utilization. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers a potentially more energy-efficient and decentralized alternative. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially concerning oxidant selection. Using oxygen can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and yield. Challenges include the need for catalysts that can activate propane under mild conditions while suppressing over-oxidation and managing the exothermic reaction to prevent overheating and ensure safety.", "Doi": "10.1002/ente.201900622"},
{"DOC": "Growing propene demand challenges current production methods, potentially leading to increased interest in dedicated synthesis processes like propane dehydrogenation. ODHP offers higher propane conversion and propene yield than non-oxidative dehydrogenation, with CO2 utilisation as a by-product, producing hydrogen and carbon monoxide (syngas). However, the specific challenges of using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP are underexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production struggles with achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity simultaneously, due to propylene's higher oxidation susceptibility and propane cracking at temperatures above 700 degrees Celsius. ODHP offers potential improvements in conversion and selectivity but faces challenges in maintaining selectivity and managing propane cracking. Oxidant selection, particularly the use of oxygen, adds safety concerns and process upsets.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00816-X"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking, face challenges including high energy consumption, costs, and greenhouse gas emissions. ODHP offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective alternative, potentially reducing emissions and saving energy. Using CO2 as an oxidant in ODHP further enhances its benefits, promoting selective dehydrogenation without over-oxidation risks. However, oxygen use decreases propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation to CO2, highlighting the critical role of oxidant choice in ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c2ee22409g"},
{"DOC": "Propylene production faces challenges due to high demand and current methods like steam cracking, fluid catalytic cracking, and direct dehydrogenation of propane, which have thermodynamic limits and catalyst deactivation issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is advantageous due to its exothermic nature, eliminating thermodynamic constraints at lower temperatures. However, using oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP can cause overoxidation to carbon oxides, leading to inefficient reactant use and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_0"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, face challenges including high energy consumption, low propylene selectivity, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. ODHP offers an alternative by using propane as a more economical feedstock and potentially more efficient conversion. However, ODHP has its own limitations, especially in oxidant selection. Oxygen, while lowering reaction temperatures and making the process exothermic, risks overoxidation and side reactions, impacting olefin selectivity. CO2, as a mild oxidant, can improve catalyst activity without overoxidation risks but doesn't provide enough heat and can lead to additional coke deposition and competitive adsorption on catalyst surfaces, affecting performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, face challenges such as high operating temperatures, expensive precious metal catalysts, and catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation of active species. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) offers a potential solution by potentially lowering the reaction temperature due to its exothermic nature. However, ODHP introduces new challenges, particularly in controlling propylene selectivity due to the risk of overoxidation to carbon monoxide and dioxide. The choice of oxidant is critical, with carbon dioxide (CO2) emerging as a preferred alternative to oxygen, as it can avoid deep oxidation, reduce coke formation, and favor propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CY00586J"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods, including steam cracking, FCC, and DH, face challenges such as endothermic reactions, coke production, and thermodynamic constraints. ODP, using molecular oxygen, offers lower reaction temperatures and reduced coke formation, addressing these issues. However, it suffers from low propylene selectivity due to total oxidation at high conversion rates, underscoring the need for a selective catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.015"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand outpaces conventional catalytic and steam cracking methods, leading to interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Direct dehydrogenation faces low yields and conversion due to equilibrium limitations and high temperatures, causing side reactions and coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is exothermic and not thermodynamically limited, but struggles with propylene selectivity due to over-oxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emerges as a soft oxidant, beneficial for PDH by utilizing CO2 and removing coke. CO2's promoting effect shifts the PDH equilibrium or directly oxidizes propane to propylene. However, PDH with CO2 suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke and chromium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1080/00986445.2015.1017638"},
{"DOC": "Current propylene production methods face challenges like high energy demands, catalyst regeneration, and thermodynamic constraints. ODHP offers a solution by reducing energy needs, eliminating catalyst regeneration, and overcoming thermodynamic limits. However, using oxygen in ODHP can cause flammability and poor selectivity due to over-oxidation. Employing CO2 as a soft oxidant addresses these issues, making the process safer and more efficient.", "Doi": "10.1007/s10562-017-2282-3"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    