4. Conclusion and Future Direction
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
In this paper, the design and construction of B active sites in different dimensions were systematically summarized. Moreover, the reaction mechanisms of the surface reactions and gas-phase radical reactions involved in the process of ODHP over B-based catalysts were discussed. It was recognized that the catalytic mechanisms on the potential active sites of tricoordination B species with different dimensional geometric configurations deepened the understanding of B-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation and provided effective guidance for the development of more efficient ODHP catalysts in the future.
Currently, although methods to construct different configurations of active sites have been well developed, some technical problems still exist that restrict the further development of B-based catalysts: (1) Like most alkane-selective oxygenation reactions, the conversion–selectivity trade-off relationship significantly limits the yield of propene and olefin products in the ODHP reaction. Innovations in the catalytic systems and theories are highly desirable to address the limitation. (2) The enhancement of radical initiation ability on tricoordinated B active sites is still limited, especially the initiation at low temperatures. For instance, owing to the high barrier of the homolytic dissociation of the O–H bond of the boron hydroxyl in the presence of dioxygen, it is hard to achieve the dissociation–regeneration cycle between BO· and BO–H (BO· ↔ BO–H) species. The recent report on the subsurface metal promoters has provided a potential strategy to reduce the working temperature of B catalysts. (113) (3) The role of B-based catalysts in the termination of active radicals may also have a strong influence on the reaction kinetics, which should be studied in detail using experimental and theoretical methods. (4) The mechanism of the surface reaction is relatively clear, but the understanding of the reaction mechanism of gas-phase radicals and the influence of the size and geometry of the confinement space on the catalytic performances is still insufficient. On one hand, the gas-phase radical process is beneficial for controlling the distribution of carbon products leading to the byproducts enriched to the olefin. On the other hand, the radical reactions may also contribute to C–C cleavage and the formation of COx. Currently, a lack of systematic understanding of the initiation and mechanism of gas radical reaction processes exists. Meanwhile, the size and geometry of the confinement space in different dimensional structures play an important role in the radical reaction, and the optimal confinement effect needs to be further explored. (5) The stability of B-based catalyst and its ability to inhibit boric acid leaching need to be further improved. The hydrolysis of B–O–B oligomers could form the active B species, but the complete hydrolysis could lead to the formation of boric acid by B with saturated hydroxyl groups, which could deactivate the catalyst once it leaches from the reaction system because of the strong solubility of such species in water. Without an effective method to prevent the overhydrolysis of the active species, it is not possible to run the ODHP reaction at high C3H8 conversion, which will limit the potential for industrial application of the B catalysts. The single-site B-doped zeolite catalyst is a case that showed improved stability in the ODHP reaction. (60) Modifying the catalyst and enhancing the hydrophobicity of B-based catalyst may also be a potential solution to this issue.
Finally, with the achievements obtained in both catalytic performances and mechanistic understandings, the B-based catalysts have demonstrated significant potential in the oxidative dehydrogenation reaction of propane. As a reaction dominated by the radical pathway, the spatial configuration and dispersion of the active sites and synergism of the surface catalytic cycles and gas-phase reactions are highly important for catalyst design and performance optimization. Studies on these important problems in the future will promote the catalytic performances of B-based materials and open up new opportunities for the practical application of oxidative dehydrogenation techniques for the production of low olefins.