 
VOLUME 85, FEBRUARY 2007 
THE CANADIAN JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
127 
F
undamentals of Industrial Catalytic Processes (Second 
Edition) is a deﬁ
 nitive instructional and reference text that 
has been written for a broad chemical science and 
engineering audience. The text has been authored with a 
balanced academic and industrial perspective of industrial 
catalysis by authors who have been instrumental in advancing 
the discipline. This book directly addresses the academic need 
for a comprehensive course text, while providing a level of 
information and detail for several industrially relevant processes 
that will be of particular interest to the practising chemist and 
engineer. The result is a very readable and comprehendible text 
for the engineer and chemist alike, which is based on a founda-
tion of using fundamental aspects of reaction engineering and 
heterogeneous catalysis for industrial design and optimization of 
industrial catalytic processes. 
The book is separated into two sections, and begins with a 
summary of reaction engineering and catalysis fundamentals 
(chapters 1–5), followed by relevant industrial examples of 
heterogeneously catalyzed processes (chapters 6–13). In this 
regard, the text could easily serve as the required text for two 
academic courses, one in heterogeneous catalyst fundamentals 
and the second in industrial catalytic processes. This format also 
allows the experienced and practising chemist and engineer to 
quickly locate information of interest, similar to a traditional 
handbook format. Although the book does not labour through 
every detail of the various topics presented, the text is superbly 
referenced, allowing the interested reader to collect and review 
additional materials, as necessary. The text is also well illustrated 
with numerous schematics and ﬁ
 gures, which make the compre-
hension of new and difﬁ
 cult topics straightforward.
The ﬁ
 rst ﬁ
 ve chapters of the text are devoted to summarizing 
the basic aspects and fundamentals of catalytic reaction engineer-
ing, and are presented in logical order that is particularly easy to 
comprehend. After presenting a brief history of catalysis and 
highlighting several signiﬁ
 cant industrial applications of hetero-
geneous catalysis, Chapter 1 concludes by providing an overview 
of basic molecular catalysis principles and the role of surface 
Fundamentals of Industrial 
Catalytic Processes, 2nd Edition
C. H. Bartholomew and Robert J. Farrauto
John Wiley and Sons, Hoboken, NJ, 966 pp., 2006.
structure in catalysis. Chapter 2 discusses the important methods 
involved in catalyst preparation and further presents the authors’ 
insightful views regarding the future of heterogeneous catalyst 
development. Chapter 3 introduces the reader to the objectives 
of catalyst characterization before presenting a comprehensive 
list of characterization techniques and the basic information 
obtained from each technique. The chapter then leads into a 
detailed discussion of several common analytical techniques to 
characterize bulk and surface properties. Chapter 4 summarizes 
the basic equations for reactor design and the analysis of reaction 
rate data, and Chapter 5 discusses the basic causes of heteroge-
neous catalyst deactivation and methods to model catalyst 
deactivation. Indeed, it is this comprehensive summary of 
catalyst deactivation, drawn largely from the authors’ own 
experiences, that is a noteworthy addition to the literature of 
heterogeneous catalysis.
The remaining eight chapters (chapters 6–13) are devoted to 
summarizing industrial examples of heterogeneous catalysis, 
and include such topics as hydrogen and synthesis gas produc-
tion, 
hydrogenation/dehydrogenation, 
catalytic 
(partial) 
oxidation, petroleum reﬁ
 ning and hydrotreating, and environ-
mental catalysis for mobile and stationary sources. These 
chapters include a multitude of information on these industrially 
relevant topics, including reaction chemistry, thermodynamics, 
kinetics and mechanisms, catalyst design and deactivation, 
reactor and process design, and future trends in industrial cataly-
sis. Chapter 12 presents a brief discussion of traditional non-
heterogeneously catalyzed systems, and summarizes aspects of 
homogeneous, enzymatic, and polymerization catalysis. This 
section concludes in Chapter 13 by discussing catalyst technolo-
gies for catalytic hydrogen production and the application of 
catalysts in fuel cells. The text also includes a comprehensive 
glossary and index which enables the rapid location of speciﬁ
 c 
topics in this tome, which the practicing scientist and engineer 
will ﬁ
 nd this level of referencing to be particularly useful.
The logical question to ponder is what is missing from the 
book. Arguably, the authors’ apparent focus was to prepare a 
BOOK REVIEW
 128 
THE CANADIAN JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
VOLUME 85, FEBRUARY 2007
comprehensive summary highlighting the fundamentals and 
practices of industrial (heterogeneous) catalysis. To this end, the 
authors’ presentation is a convincing success. The only notable 
omission from the book is a detailed discussion of industrial 
heterogeneous reactor scale-up, design, and operation issues. 
Heterogeneous reactor design and operability challenges, such 
as heat and mass transport limitations, particle ﬂ
 uidization, and 
laboratory scale-up, would be a welcome compendium to the 
comprehensive discussion in this book. However, the effective 
presentation and discussion of this additional material would 
likely double the length of the book, and thus, a separate book 
addressing these industrial heterogeneous reactor design issues 
may instead be advisable.
In summary, this book will be of value to both the novice and 
practising engineer, and is highly effective in its presentation of 
industrial catalytic process fundamentals and industrial examples. 
The authors have prepared a very useful book that should be 
considered as a text for academic instruction and a resource for 
the practising chemist and engineer. This book represents a 
signiﬁ
 cant value, and a personal copy would be an advisable 
investment.
Alan E. Nelson, PhD, P.Eng.
The Dow Chemical Company
Corporate Research and Development
Midland, MI, U.S.A.
E-mail: aenelson@dow.com
