I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Understanding with WA Water Corporation to provide biogas and project site for development. It intends to finalize the construction by Dec 2020 and launch the facility in Jan 2021.Original Source: NS Energy, 3 Sep 2019, (Website:http://www.nsenergybusiness.com/)  NS Energy 2019.
Linde starts construction in Singapore for integrated gasification complex Linde has broken ground for a new $1.4 bn gasification facility at its existing complex on Jurong Island in Singapore. The facility will be integrated with Lindes existing gasification complex and will supply hydrogen and synthesis gas to support the multi-billion-dollar expansion of ExxonMobil Asia Pacifics integrated manufacturing complex in Singapore. The project involves building and operating four additional gasifiers, a 1200 tonne/d air separation unit, as well as downstream gas processing units and sulfur recovery plants.
Linde will also invest in a dedicated set of pipelines between ExxonMobil and Linde facilities. Start-up is expected in 2023.
Original Source: PetroChemical News, 2 Sep 2019, 57 (33), 1 (Website: http://www.petrochemical-news.com) William F. Bland Co. 2019.
Zhejiang Satellite commissions its second C3 Oleflex unit for propylene production Zhejiang Satellite Petrochemical Co has started up a second propylene plant using Honeywell UOPs C3 Oleflex technology at a new petrochemical complex in China. The new unit has the capacity to produce 450,000 tonne/y of polymer-grade propylene. With the first unit, which was started up in late 2014, Zhejiang Satellite now has a production capacity of 900,000 tonne/y. Honeywell UOPs C3 Oleflex technology uses catalytic dehydrogenation to convert propane into propylene.
Original Source: PetroChemical News, 26 Aug 2019, 57 (32), 1 (Website: http://www.petrochemical-news.com) William F. Bland Co. 2019.
McDermott awarded FEED contract for PetroLogistics new PDH plant PetroLogistics II has awarded a front-end engineering design (FEED) contract to McDermott,valued at between $1 M and $50 M, for a planned propane dehydrogenation (PDH) unit on the US Gulf Coast. The 500,000 tonne/y PDH unit, for which a specific location has not yet been decided,will utilize Dows proprietary fluidized catalytic dehydrogenation technology.
Original Source:PetroChemical News, 26 Aug 2019, 57 (32), 1 (Website: http://www.petrochemical-news.com) William F. Bland Co. 2019.
PetroChina selects Honeywell technology for integrated PCs facility in Jieyang PetroChina Guangdong Petrochemical Co will use Honeywell UOPs advanced heavy oil processing technology for an integrated petrochemical (PC) complex being built in Jieyang, Guangdong Province, China. The new facility will have 20 M tonne/y of crude processing capacity, which will transform PetroChina Guangdong into a more fully integrated petrochemicals supplier. Honeywell UOP will provide a range of technology licences,engineering design, key equipment and state-of- the-art catalysts and adsorbents, operator training,technical services for start-up and continuing operation. The project includes a 3.7 M tonne/y Unicracking hydrocracking unit, which converts heavy vacuum gas oil into raw materials for petrochemicals and motor fuels. It also includes two Honeywell UOP CCR Platforming units, each with a capacity of 3 M tonne/y, to produce aromatics, fuels, and hydrogen needed for other processes in the plant. In addition, the facility will have a 2.6 M tonne/y Light Desorbent Parex aromatics complex to produce high-purity paraxylene. This complex will be the largest single-train paraxylene unit in the world. China National Petroleum Corp, parent company of PetroChina, and PDVSA began construction on the petrochemical complex in 2018. Start-up is expected in 2021. Earlier reports on the complex said it would also include the production of high- density polyethylene (PE), low-density PE, styrene,butadiene and polypropylene.
Original Source: PetroChemical News, 26 Aug 2019, 57 (32), 2 (Website: http://www.petrochemical-news.com) William F. Bland Co. 2019.
NEW
TECHNOLOGY
Successful research at catalysis laboratory BASF and the University of Heidelberg will jointly continue operating their Catalysis Research Laboratory (CaRLa) for a further three years. The partners signed the appropriate contract to extend the research cooperation until 2022. At CaRLa,researchers work on issues relating to homogeneous catalyst. Eight projects started by CaRLa have been transferred in the meantime to BASFs research units to further develop them specifically for industrial applications since 2015.
The current research work focuses primarily on efficient and resource-conserving synthesis methods, including methods using carbon dioxide (CO2) or renewable resources as starting materials. One example is the production of sodium acrylate from ethylene and CO2. Sodium acrylate is an important starting material for superabsorbents, which are used in diapers and other hygiene products. If this new process proves to be stable and energetically beneficial on a larger scale, CO2 would replace around 30% of the fossil feedstock in the superabsorber compared to the current production method. To date, more than 80 researchers from 22 different countries have worked at CaRLa. Their work is reflected in 82 scientific papers published in renowned journals.
Furthermore, CaRLa has submitted 28 patent applications. Clearly, CaRLa stands for a successful cooperation of academic and industrial research. The Catalysis Research Laboratory is an Industry on Campus project. With this concept,the University of Heidelberg pursues new ways of scientific cooperation with industry. As a result, the focus lies on long-term and strategically oriented projects of basic research. CaRLa is financed as part of a Private Public Partnership between BASF and the University of Heidelberg.Original Source: BASF, 13 Aug 2019, (Website: http:// www.basf.com)  BASF 2019.
BASF developing process for climate-friendly methanol BASF is pursuing patent coverage for a new zero- emission methanol production process. In the novel process, syngas is produced through partial oxidation of natural gas. The process does not emit carbon dioxide and has shown to be beneficial in a joint study with Linde Engineering. Methanol synthesis and distillation - the succeeding process steps - can be conducted almost unchanged. The waste gas streams (hydrogen, carbon dioxide,carbon monoxide, and methane) generated during methanol synthesis and distillation are incinerated with pure oxygen in an Oxyfuel process. This produces a small amount of flue gas with the highest carbon dioxide content. To fully recover the carbon dioxide, the flue gas is scrubbed using the companys OASE process. The recovered carbon dioxide is used in the beginning of the process.
However, this needs more hydrogen, which BASF targets to generated without emitting carbon dioxide.
Original Source: Chemical Engineering World, Jun 2019,54 (6), 20 (Website: http://www.cewindia.com) Jasubhai Group 2019.
ETH Zurich and Total develop new catalyst to convert CO2 and hydrogen into methanol Scientists at ETH Zurich and oil and gas company Total have developed a new catalyst that converts CO2 and hydrogen into methanol. Offering realistic market potential, the technology paves the way for the sustainable production of fuels and chemicals.
The core of the new approach is a chemical catalyst based on indium oxide, which was developed by Javier Perez-Ramirez, Professor of Catalysis Engineering at ETH Zurich, and his team.
Just a few years ago, the team successfully demonstrated in experiments that indium oxide was capable of catalyzing the necessary chemical reaction. Even at the time, it was encouraging that doing so generated virtually only methanol and almost no by-products other than water. The catalyst also proved to be highly stable. However,indium oxide was not sufficiently active as a catalyst; the large quantities needed prevent it from being a commercially viable option. The team of scientists have now succeeded in boosting the activity of the catalyst significantly, without affecting its selectivity or stability. They achieved this by treating the indium oxide with a small quantity of palladium. Original Source: ETH Zurich,
2019. Found on website: http://www.
specialchem4adhesives.com.
Original Source: ETH Zurich, 2019. Found on SpecialChem Adhesives and Sealants Formulation, 9 Aug 2019, (Website: http://www.specialchem4adhesives. com).
Topsoe building demo plant to produce CO2-neutral methanol from biogas and green electricity To establish the companys electrified and extremely compact eSMR Methanol technology, Haldor Topsoe is building a 10 kg/h methanol plant. The technology will utilize the full carbon potential of biogas by using the 40% CO2 content.
The demo plant, which is anticipated to be 100% operational by 2022, will be located at Aarhus Universitys research facility in Foulum, Denmark.
Original Source: Chemical Weekly, 30 Jul 2019,(Website: http://www.chemicalweekly.com)  Sevak Publications & Chemical Weekly Database P Ltd 2019.
F O C U S
O N
C A T A L Y S T S
6 November 2019


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, contribute to the chemical industry in terms of their applications and market trends, and what are the key production methods and thermodynamic challenges associated with their synthesis, particularly in relation to temperature, pressure, and alkane chain length effects?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 