Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. Alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield carbene hydride and olefin hydride species, which interact to form tantalum cyclobutane. This decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin species, leading to new alkanes upon hydrogenation. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts yield a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Metallacyclobutane intermediates form via γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation, undergoing cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a single site approach, where lower alkanes transform into higher homologues. The process includes paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, produce various homologs. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes undergo metathesis. Ethane's metathesis, having a single C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. Isobutane's metathesis shows interesting product distribution, influenced by steric factors in the formation of tantalum-alkyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, a key process where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane conversion exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5 involve intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into other intermediates through hydrogen transfer. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms explain ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, contrasting with silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tantalum catalysts offering broader product distribution than tungsten-based counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that yields lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues after cycloreversion and subsequent steps. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes playing crucial roles. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, showcases the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes do not react catalytically. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, produces propane and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle liberates methane and regenerates the tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second alkane molecule results in n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex. Isobutane's metathesis shows a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites, one for olefin generation and the other for metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides operates via two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which are liberated as lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity for higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key process, involving 1-alkenes. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of a metallacyclobutane intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quotes 3, 4), deactivating the catalyst. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6). The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides is evident in ring contraction and one-carbon ring-contraction products (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. This mechanism, crucial for CC bond formation and cleavage, enhances catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with β-H and α-H transfers leading to alkene and alkylidene species, respectively. The alkene undergoes homologation, yielding different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, hydrogenolyze with the catalyst, involving γ-H activation to form a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes act as intermediates, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bonds. Branched alkanes like isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state transfers hydrogen from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. Higher alkanes, like propane to n-butane and isobutane, follow this mechanism. Isobutane's metathesis shows interesting product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl species occurs despite steric disfavor.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction. Propane conversion yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis is due to its transformation into an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and metallacyclobutane hydrogenolysis. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, transforms intermediate 11 into 3 or 12 via hydrogen addition or transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Simple hydrogen-transfer processes from 11 to 6 or 12 explain all product formations. β-position carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 can be a β-alkyl transfer, yielding ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, which insert to form smaller rings. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size, highlighting mechanistic differences with tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the reaction initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts offer narrower product distributions, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "At 150 degrees Celsius, silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates are key, with pi-bond metathesis facilitating carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane transformations.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site process, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes through β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, consistent with alkene metathesis as the key process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. γ-H activation forms a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion and subsequent steps for alkane homologue production. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to form metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis reveal olefins and H2 as primary products. The mechanism involves intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, showcasing selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species due to steric hindrance. During the reaction, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane shows interesting product distribution, influenced by steric factors in methyl transfer steps.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, a key process where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. For instance, propane conversion yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond-cleavage step (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quotes 3 & 4), deactivating the catalyst. Ring size dependence is observed, with cyclohexane undergoing hydrogenolysis unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6). Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). Pathways 4 and 5 involve intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12 (Quotes 10-13). β-alkyl transfer explains the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products (Quote 10). Simple hydrogen-transfer processes from 11 to 6 and/or 12 explain all product formation (Quote 11). Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 can be a β-alkyl transfer, leading to ω-alkenyl complexes and smaller ring systems (Quotes 12 & 13). Most intermediates can undergo α- and β-H transfer processes (Quote 14). Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size (Quote 15). The formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products highlights a mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. This involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with CC bond formation/cleavage via pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with the key step involving γ-H activation to form a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach. The mechanism involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis reveal olefins and H2 as primary products, with alkenes and metallacyclobutanes as key intermediates. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel process in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Neopentane, however, only forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species due to steric hindrance. During the reaction, tantalum hydrides become tantalum-alkyl intermediates, enabling C-C bond formation and cleavage. For ethane, this results in propane liberation and the formation of a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and regeneration of the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism begins with C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This process is consistent across higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with substantial neopentane production despite the disfavoring of the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. π-Bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, is central, with alkylidene hydrides as key intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction. Catalyst turnover frequency is initially constant, then decreases.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis stems from its transformation into an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, transforms intermediate 11 into 3 or 12 via hydrogen transfer. Pathway 4, a β-alkyl transfer, yields ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, facilitating the formation of smaller rings. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides exhibit β-alkyl transfer-dependent ring contraction, differing mechanistically from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes into new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation of these species produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts offer narrower product distributions, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than with tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues. The key step involves γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis reveal olefins and H2 as primary products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, expanding the scope of alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. In ethane metathesis, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane metathesis results in a specific product distribution, influenced by steric factors in methyl transfer steps.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. π-Bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, is central, with alkylidene hydrides as key intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes, illustrating the process. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of a cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 can activate carbon-carbon bonds, leading to various intermediates, with α-alkyl transfer yielding intermediate 11, which can transform into 3 or 12. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-carbon activation in 4 forms ω-alkenyl complexes, leading to smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer. Group 4 metal hydrides show ring contraction via β-alkyl transfer, dependent on ring size, differing from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of methyl or ethyl substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts result in a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 and n  1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, followed by olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, enhance catalyst performance. An unusual case of 2-methylpropane converting to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights selective two-carbon transfer, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane molecules. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis leads to a product distribution influenced by steric hindrance, with neopentane production despite disfavoring the tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism, involving π-bond metathesis and alkylidene hydrides as intermediates, is influenced by ancillary ligands, which have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes, demonstrating the process's versatility.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates are formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion as a key step (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in the formation of a cyclopentadienyl derivative, an inactive complex that deactivates the catalyst (Quotes 3 & 4). Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with the inactivity of Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6). The mechanism differs between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides, particularly in the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. Alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield carbene hydride and olefin hydride species, which interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane. This decomposes to new carbene and olefin species, hydrogenated to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tantalum favoring these interactions more than tungsten, leading to a broader product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. This process, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane, is key to the catalyst's selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, where alkene intermediates are converted within the coordination sphere of the metal center. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with the key step involving γ-H activation leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate. This intermediate can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, have been developed, displaying similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. The mechanism relies on intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane demonstrates selective two-carbon transfer, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane a-bonds. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes lead to homolog formation. Ethane's metathesis involves C-C bond cleavage and liberation of propane, forming a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and regeneration of the tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes, followed by methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis results in complex product distributions, influenced by steric hindrance in the formation of tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds through olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, forming different alkenes and alkylidene species, which liberate lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, yields intermediates that can transform into others via hydrogen addition or transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer explains the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, differing mechanistically from tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing into new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. Propane, for instance, is transformed into ethane and butane. The key step involves carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site process, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes through β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, yielding different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis releasing lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, formed in situ, where alkene intermediates are converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, hydrogenolyze with the catalyst, forming lower cyclic homologues. A γ-H activation step after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and further steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various well-defined metal hydride catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes, such as isobutane, undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule to these intermediates yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis, with respect to product distribution, produces two tantalum-alkyl intermediates, with neopentane formation from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl species occurring in substantial amounts despite steric disfavor.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity for higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4's intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation leads to various intermediates, with α-alkyl transfer forming 11, which can transform into 3 or 12. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-position carbon-carbon activation in 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating smaller ring system formation. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, differing mechanistically from tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    