Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. Alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield carbene hydride and olefin hydride species, which interact to create tantalum cyclobutane intermediates. These decompose, producing new carbene and olefin species that hydrogenate to form new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tantalum favoring these interactions more than tungsten, leading to a broader product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating alkenes via β-H transfer and the other evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after CH bond activation forms metallacyclobutane intermediates, which undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a single site approach, where a highly electrophilic hydride facilitates the transfer of a single carbon between chains. Key steps include paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 product formation over Cn+2. The mechanism is characterized by the formation of intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, which contribute to catalyst performance. An unusual example is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, involving the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and regeneration of the tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis leads to a product distribution influenced by steric factors.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, produces intermediates that can transform into other intermediates via hydrogen addition or transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer explains the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-H transfer processes are common for Group 5 transition metals, allowing the formation of various products. The hydrogenolysis mechanism of Group 4 metal hydrides differs, with ring contraction best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distributions than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs, exemplified by propane transforming into ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with the key step being pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, with the key step involving γ-H activation after CH bond activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that can undergo cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are crucial intermediates affecting selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, involving the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates, cleaving and forming C-C bonds. Acyclic alkanes react, while cyclic alkanes do not. Ethane's metathesis produces propane and a tantalum-methyl complex, followed by methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis shows a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on tantalum-tert-butyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates forming and converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and subsequent steps involving a metallacyclobutane intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis and direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, transforms into intermediate 11, which can evolve into 3 or 12 via hydrogen transfer. Pathway 4, a β-alkyl transfer, yields ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, facilitating the formation of smaller rings. Most intermediates can easily undergo carbon-carbon activation, highlighting α- and β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides exhibit a β-alkyl transfer mechanism, differing from tantalum hydrides in ring contraction and product formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes into new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation of these species produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts offer narrower product distributions, suggesting less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than with tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes through β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, hydrogenolyze with the catalyst, yielding lower cyclic homologues. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with a preference for Cn+1 products over Cn+2. The mechanism employs a single site approach using a highly electrophilic tantalum hydride, facilitating CH and CC bond cleavage and formation. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a critical role in selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected two-carbon transfer process was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage releases propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. Higher alkanes, such as n-butane and isobutane from propane, result from C-H bond activation yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Subsequent methyl group transfer from propane to these intermediates produces n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, leading to ethane. Isobutane's metathesis, with its product distribution, involves C-H bond activation producing two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric hindrance disfavors tert-butyl formation, yet substantial neopentane production occurs from methyl transfer on the tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates are converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms involve alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a key carbon-carbon bond cleavage step (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in its conversion to a cyclopentyl derivative, which evolves into an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quote 3), deactivating the catalyst (Quote 4). Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition due to seven-membered ring transition states (Quote 17). Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, yields intermediate 11, which can transform into 3 or 12 (Quote 9). β-alkyl transfer explains the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4's β position can be considered a β-alkyl transfer, leading to ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, which form smaller ring systems (Quote 12). Most intermediates can fall into carbon-carbon activation manifolds due to common α- and β-H transfer processes (Quote 14). Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size (Quote 15). The formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products highlights a mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates form, with carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation via pi-bond metathesis, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer, leading to homologation and liberation of lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity for higher homologues, n + 1 and n  1, is due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, forming metallacyclobutane intermediates via γ-H activation, which can yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, and hydrogenation. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, starting with paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin. Olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, formed via a-H elimination, follows, with subsequent hydrogenation of new olefins on the metal-hydride. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis confirm olefins and H2 as primary products. Key intermediates, alkenes, and metallacyclobutanes, are essential for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected two-carbon transfer in 2-methylpropane and 2-methylpropene transformations, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the complexity of alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond of a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species, likely due to steric hindrance. During the reaction, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism begins with C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This process is consistent across higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane, with its product distribution, highlights the role of steric factors in the reaction mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation process, with alkylidene hydrides as key intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Propane metathesis exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site process, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis stems from its conversion into an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4's intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation leads to various intermediates, including 11, which can transform into 3 or 12, explaining two-carbon ring-contraction products. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 facilitates the formation of smaller ring systems like cyclohexane or methylcyclopentane. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size, highlighting mechanistic differences with tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, which interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane. Decomposition of this intermediate produces new carbene and olefin species, leading to hydrogenation and new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs, exemplified by propane transforming into a mixture of ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation occurring through a pi-bond metathesis mechanism, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. γ-H activation forms a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Unexpected transformations, like 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, reveal selective two-carbon transfer, expanding the understanding of alkane metathesis mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane molecules. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes, like propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. The subsequent methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule results in n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then yields ethane. Neopentane, due to steric hindrance, only forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The catalytic cycle liberates methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex through a new four-centered transition state.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer (Quote 2). Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues (Quote 3). The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes (Quote 4). Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates (Quote 6). Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of a metallacyclobutane intermediate (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond-cleavage step (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst (Quotes 3 & 4). Cyclohexane hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show ring size dependence (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving transition states with seven-membered rings (Quote 17). Pathways 4 and 5 lead to various intermediates, with α-alkyl transfer (Pathway 5) yielding intermediate 11, which can transform into intermediates 3 or 12. β-alkyl transfer from intermediate 4 explains the formation of smaller ring systems (cyclohexane or methylcyclopentane).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. For instance, propane is transformed into ethane and butane. These intermediates play a key role in reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity for higher homologues (n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues) is due to alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Metallacyclobutane intermediates form via γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation, undergoing cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through single carbon transfers, involving CH and CC bond cleavage and formation. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, enhance selectivity for Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Propane metathesis yields olefins and H2, highlighting the role of intermediates. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, involves selective two-carbon transfers, showcasing unique selectivity in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex occurring in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, efficiently transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism hinges on π-bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have yet to improve performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, and minor products. Selectivity is governed by minimizing steric hindrance in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with one site generating olefins and the other conducting metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are produced through ligand exchange on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which are liberated as lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates are formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to further hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst (Quote 4). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition due to seven-membered ring transition states (Quote 6). Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction via β-alkyl transfer, tantalum hydrides produce one-carbon ring-contraction products, indicating a mechanistic difference (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten catalysts yield a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. This process involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with the key step involving γ-H activation after CH bond activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a single site approach, where a highly electrophilic tantalum hydride facilitates the transfer of a single carbon between chains. The process includes CH bond activation leading to metal-alkyl and olefin formation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis reveal olefins and H2 as primary products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, are essential for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An alumina-supported tungsten hydride catalyzes the unexpected two-carbon transfer in 2-methylpropane and 2-methylpropene, producing 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2,3-dimethylbutene, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher homologs are produced from propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having a single C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule to these intermediates produces n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which yields ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is intriguing due to its product distribution, with the C-H bond activation step producing two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. The formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species is disfavored due to steric reasons, yet neopentane's production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer (Quote [2]). The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues (Quote [3]). The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes (Quote [4]). Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates (Quote [6]). The selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, lead to various intermediates, with β-alkyl transfer explaining ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller rings. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer processes. The hydrogenolysis of Group 4 metal hydrides differs mechanistically, with β-alkyl transfer dependent on alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts offering narrower product distributions, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, exemplified by propane's conversion into ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a crucial role, with pi-bond metathesis being the key mechanism for carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates forming and converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts based on metal hydrides display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues. The mechanism involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis yield olefins and H2 as primary products. Uniquely, an alumina-supported tungsten hydride transforms 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, showcasing the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex formation. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, like propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes, followed by methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis, influenced by steric hindrance, produces neopentane in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds through olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site process, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer (Quote [2]). Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues (Quote [3]). The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes (Quote [4]). Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates (Quote [6]). Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process (Quote [7]). Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond cleavage step (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis is due to its reaction with the catalyst, forming an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quotes 3-4). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, as they involve seven-membered ring transition states (Quotes 6, 17). The formation of smaller cyclic products is explained by rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. The intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular activation of a carbon-carbon bond, leading to various intermediates. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, results in intermediate 11, which can transform into 3 or 12 via hydrogen addition or successive β-H and α-H transfer steps. Carbon-carbon activation in the β position in intermediate 4 can be considered a β-alkyl transfer, leading to ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, which can undergo insertion to form smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can fall into one or another carbon-carbon activation manifold, as α- and β-H transfer processes are common for Group 5 transition metals.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex leads to the creation of carbene hydride and olefin hydride species, which interact to form a tantalum cyclobutane. Decomposition yields new carbene and olefin species, hydrogenated to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distributions than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues. The key step involves γ-H activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, influence selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the conversion of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, doesn't present selectivity issues. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes react similarly, except neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, like the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane shows interesting product distribution, influenced by steric factors.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, efficiently transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism hinges on π-bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have paradoxically hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, and minor products. Selectivity is governed by minimizing steric hindrance in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with one site generating olefins and the other conducting metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are produced through ligand exchange on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates formed and converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydrides. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst (Quote 4). Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on ring size (Quote 15). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, facilitating the formation of smaller cyclic products through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, respectively, account for various ring-contraction products. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, enabling the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- and β-H transfer processes, common for Group 5 transition metals. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    