Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing into new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, exemplified by propane's transformation into ethane and butane, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that can yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, have been developed, displaying similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Metallacyclobutanes and alkenes act as intermediates, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the conversion of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state for C-C bond cleavage and formation. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, produces propane and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex, releasing methane. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Methyl group transfer from a second alkane molecule evolves n-butane and isobutane, forming a tantalum-ethyl complex that yields ethane. Isobutane's metathesis, with its product distribution, involves C-H bond activation and methyl transfer steps, potentially disfavoring the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species due to steric hindrance, yet neopentane is produced in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Propane conversion demonstrates the formation of ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower alkane homologues are produced through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which liberate lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond-cleavage step (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of a cyclopentadienyl derivative, an inactive complex that deactivates the catalyst (Quotes 3 & 4). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition due to their involvement in seven-membered ring transition states (Quote 6 & 17). The formation of smaller cyclic products is explained by rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides is evident in the ring contraction and one-carbon ring-contraction products (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex leads to carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interaction produces a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to form new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site process, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation yields a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion and steps like hydrogenolysis and hydrogenation to produce cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues. The mechanism involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, starting with paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin. Olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, formed via a-H elimination, follows, with hydrogenation of new olefins on the metal-hydride. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, enhance selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected two-carbon transfer in 2-methylpropane and 2-methylpropene transformations, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the versatility of these reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures, as seen with ethane converting to propane and methane. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates, cleaving and forming C-C bonds. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to various homologs. Ethane's metathesis, being the simplest, does not present selectivity issues. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to the involvement of various C-H and C-C bonds. Branched alkanes react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates, which then liberate methane and regenerate the catalyst. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, methyl group transfer, and C-C bond formation. For higher alkanes, like propane to n-butane and isobutane, the process involves C-H bond activation and methyl transfer steps. Isobutane's metathesis is complex, with steric hindrance affecting the formation of tert-butyl intermediates, yet neopentane is produced in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, leading to smaller cyclic products through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, explain the formation of various products, with β-alkyl transfer accounting for cyclopentane and smaller linear products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism and the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts offer narrower product distributions, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than with tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. This process, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane, contributes to catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer, leading to homologation and liberation of alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity for higher homologues, n + 1 and n  1 linear homologues, aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that yields lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Catalysts based on metal hydrides display similar activities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Key intermediates, alkenes, and metallacyclobutanes, contribute to selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, involves the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane carbon-carbon bonds. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to the formation of various homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to the involvement of various C-H and C-C bonds. Branched alkanes like isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Subsequent methyl group transfer from propane to these intermediates yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is noteworthy for its product distribution, with C-H bond activation producing tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric reasons may disfavor the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds through olefin-carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show ring size dependence. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12 via α- and β-H transfer steps. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, can account for two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- and β-H transfer processes, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides exhibit β-alkyl transfer-dependent ring contraction, differing mechanistically from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex leads to carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin results in a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "At 150 degrees Celsius, silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting alkanes like propane into their homologs, ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with pi-bond metathesis as the key step for carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, contributing to catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, yielding cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion and subsequent steps. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach. The reaction involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, demonstrates the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as n-butane and isobutane formation from propane. Isobutane's metathesis is interesting due to its product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric reasons may disfavor the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species, yet substantial neopentane production occurs from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with one site generating olefins and the other conducting metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which are liberated as lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a key carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of a cyclopentadienyl derivative, an inactive complex that deactivates the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving transition states with seven-membered rings. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation in intermediates leads to various products, with β-alkyl transfer pathways accounting for ring-contraction products. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms explain ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, which is size-dependent, contrasting with silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin, hydrogenated to form new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes, and metallacyclobutanes, enhance catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state for C-C bond cleavage and formation. Tantalum hydrides become tantalum-alkyl intermediates, enabling C-C bond cleavage and the liberation of products. The catalytic cycle regenerates the active species through hydrogen transfer. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. The metathesis of isobutane showcases steric effects on product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, similar to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides, indicating a ring size dependence. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products result from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, transforms intermediate 11 into 3 or 12 via hydrogen transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides show mechanistic differences, with ring contraction best explained by β-alkyl transfer, influenced by alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides begins with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. Alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield carbene hydride and olefin hydride species, which interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane. This decomposes, affording new carbene and olefin species that hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs, exemplified by propane transforming into a mixture of ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage occurring through a pi-bond metathesis mechanism, which influences selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. The key step in cyclic alkane transformations involves γ-H activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, followed by olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2, with key intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes playing pivotal roles. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes lead to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule evolves n-butane and isobutane, forming a tantalum-ethyl complex that yields ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is interesting due to its product distribution, with C-H bond activation producing two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric reasons may disfavor the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species, yet substantial neopentane production occurs from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources [1]. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates [3]. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental [4]. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes [7]. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates [5]. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis [6].", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site process involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to release lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, facilitating the formation of smaller cyclic products through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, respectively, explain the formation of various products, with β-alkyl transfer accounting for cyclopentane and smaller linear products. β-H and α-H transfer steps in Pathway 5 lead to intermediates 3 and 12, while β-alkyl transfer in Pathway 4 results in ω-alkenyl complexes, enabling the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- and β-H transfer processes, common for Group 5 transition metals. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism's dependence on alkane ring size and the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex leads to carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The interaction of these species forms a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin, hydrogenating to new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts yielding a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes like propane into homologs ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with pi-bond metathesis facilitating carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the coordination sphere of the metal center. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after CH bond activation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts based on metal hydrides display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach, involving CH and CC bond cleavage and formation. Key steps include paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Unexpectedly, 2-methylpropane transforms to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, showcasing the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not react catalytically. The metathesis of ethane results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex formation. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. The metathesis of isobutane produces a distribution of products, influenced by steric effects on methyl transfer.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds via olefin and carbene interaction, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, and minor products. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can operate through a single site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed by ligand exchange through CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which liberate lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quotes 3, 4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6). Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, explain product formation (Quotes 10, 11, 13). Group 4 metal hydrides exhibit mechanistic differences, with β-alkyl transfer dependent on ring size (Quotes 15, 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs through a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. The key step for cyclic alkanes involves γ-H activation after CH bond activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves key steps: paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Propane metathesis yields olefins and H2. Unexpected transformations, like 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane, highlight the role of intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes in reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react catalytically. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides become tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes' metathesis follows a similar mechanism, with C-H bond activation yielding different tantalum-alkyl complexes. Isobutane's metathesis shows a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on a tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, similar to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which are liberated as lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydrides. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion as a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, as they involve seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation in intermediates can lead to various products, including cyclopentane and smaller linear alkanes. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms explain the ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, contrasting with silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes into new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation of these species produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes like propane into ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a crucial role, with pi-bond metathesis being the key step in carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, contributing to catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site process involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism uses tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. γ-H activation forms a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with higher selectivity for Cn+1 products. The mechanism is characterized by the formation of intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, which influence selectivity and catalyst performance. Propane metathesis primarily yields olefins and H2. An unusual two-carbon transfer process was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane and 2-methylpropene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlighting the potential for diverse carbon transfer mechanisms in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond of a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes lead to the formation of higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, involving only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane, with a specific product distribution, involves C-H bond activation, producing two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric hindrance may disfavor the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species, yet neopentane's production from methyl transfer on this species occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction. Catalyst turnover frequency is initially constant but decreases after 40 hours.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze cyclic alkane hydrogenolysis, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, as per quote 2. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, as per quote 4, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, as per quote 15. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, involving seven-membered rings. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, transforms 11 into 3 or 12 via hydrogen transfer. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon products. Conversion of 11 to 6 or 12 by hydrogen transfer explains all products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 as a β-alkyl transfer leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, forming smaller rings. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer. Group 4 metal hydrides show mechanistic differences, with β-alkyl transfer dependent on ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    