Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing into new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation of these species produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tantalum favoring 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane more than tungsten, leading to a broader product distribution compared to tungsten-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates are key, with pi-bond metathesis central to carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, influencing catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes through β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues. The key step involves γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. The mechanism relies on intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case involves the selective transfer of two carbons from 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and from 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane carbon-carbon bonds. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes undergo metathesis. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. Isobutane's metathesis is interesting for its product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric reasons may disfavor tert-butyl species formation, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on tert-butyl occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quotes 3 and 4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which do not react with cyclohexane (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6 and 17). Pathways involving α- and β-alkyl transfers explain the formation of intermediates 3, 11, and 12, accounting for various products, including cyclopentane and smaller linear products (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing into new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. This process involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with the key step being pi-bond metathesis, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, formed in situ from silica-supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. The key step for cyclic alkanes involves γ-H activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis reveal olefins and H2 as primary products. The mechanism's selectivity and catalyst performance are influenced by intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes. An unusual transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into next homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs result from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane a-bonds. Cyclic alkanes resist catalysis, while acyclic alkanes yield homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with a single C-C bond, lacks selectivity issues. Higher alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species, likely due to steric hindrance. Tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates during metathesis. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage releases propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. Methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration conclude the catalytic cycle. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. C-H bond cleavage of acyclic alkanes produces hydrogen and tantalum-alkyl species. Methyl group transfer involves C-C bond cleavage and formation. Higher alkanes, like propane, yield n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation, producing tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from propane to these intermediates evolves n-butane and isobutane, forming a tantalum-ethyl complex that yields ethane. Isobutane's metathesis, with a unique product distribution, produces two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Tantalum-tert-butyl species formation is disfavored due to steric reasons, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on tantalum-tert-butyl is substantial.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is determined by minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which are liberated as lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues. The key step involves γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, produces intermediates 11 and 12, facilitating hydrogen addition and transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, forming smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- and β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides show mechanistic differences, with ring contraction best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, which interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane. Decomposition of this cyclobutane produces new carbene and olefin species, leading to new alkanes upon hydrogenation. Product selectivity is influenced by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution compared to tungsten-based catalysts, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to a mixture of ethane and butane. This process involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with the key step being pi-bond metathesis for carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Metallacyclobutane intermediates form via γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation, undergoing cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, forming olefins and H2. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes, and metallacyclobutanes, contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights selective two-carbon transfer, a novel aspect in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond of a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Subsequent methyl group transfer from propane to these intermediates yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is interesting for its product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. The formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species is disfavored due to steric reasons, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, efficiently transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism hinges on π-bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is governed by minimizing steric hindrances in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with one site generating olefins and the other conducting metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are produced through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products result from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, respectively, explain the formation of various products. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms in Group 4 metal hydrides contrast with those in tantalum hydrides, highlighting mechanistic differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distributions than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs through a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that can undergo cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation, with selectivity for Cn+1 products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a critical role in reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, showcases the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates, cleaving and forming C-C bonds. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis involves C-C bond cleavage, liberating propane and forming a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex, releasing methane. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule evolves n-butane and isobutane, forming a tantalum-ethyl complex. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, and minor products. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and formation of a metallacyclobutane intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, lead to intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into other intermediates via hydrogen transfer. β-alkyl transfer explains ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, with size dependence, contrasting with silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates results in new alkanes. Product selectivity is influenced by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts yielding a narrower product distribution than tantalum catalysts, indicating a less favored 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. This process, exemplified by propane's transformation into ethane and butane, is crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, formed in situ, where alkene intermediates are converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Developed catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl, olefin formation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Propane metathesis yields olefins and H2. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are intermediates that influence selectivity and catalyst performance. An alumina-supported tungsten hydride catalyzes the selective transfer of two carbons in the transformation of 2-methylpropane and 2-methylpropene, a unique process in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to the involvement of multiple C-H and C-C bonds. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. During metathesis, the tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl complex. For ethane, this leads to propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and regeneration of the tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, forming tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates, followed by methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric hindrance in the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds through olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. A single-site or dual-site mechanism is possible. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes, illustrating the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "The mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides includes two-site and one-site schemes. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ from silica-supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms involve alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. The selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze cyclic alkane hydrogenolysis, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and metallacyclobutane hydrogenolysis. Intermediate 4's intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation leads to various intermediates, including 11, which can transform into 3 or 12 via hydrogen addition or transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating smaller ring system formation. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size, highlighting mechanistic differences with tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. This process, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane, contributes to the selectivity and performance of the catalyst in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves initial CH bond activation forming H2 and Ta-alkyl species. One site generates an alkene via β-H transfer, regenerating tantalum hydrides, while the other evolves to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, formed in situ, where alkene intermediates are converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues. The key step involves γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues via a single site approach. The reaction involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with a preference for Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis reveal olefins and H2 as primary products. Unexpected transformations, such as 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, demonstrate selective two-carbon transfer, a novel process in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and regeneration of the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis shows a product distribution influenced by steric effects on methyl transfer.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates determine selectivity, minimizing hindrance for substituents in [1,3]-positions. A single-site or dual-site mechanism is possible, with propane conversion yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes as an example. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer (Quote [2]). The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues (Quote [3]). The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes (Quote [4]). Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates (Quote [6]). Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a key carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results from its conversion to an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, lead to various intermediates, explaining product formation. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 forms ω-alkenyl complexes, leading to smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides show different ring contraction mechanisms, dependent on alkane ring size, indicating mechanistic differences with silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of methyl or ethyl substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "At 150 degrees Celsius, silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting alkanes like propane into a mixture of their lower and higher homologs, primarily ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with the key step being a pi-bond metathesis mechanism, crucial for carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage. This process contributes to the selectivity and performance of the catalyst in various alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, β-H transfer to regenerate hydrides, and α-H transfer to form alkylidene hydrides. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to metallacyclobutane intermediates, which undergo cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts based on metal hydrides display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2, with olefins and H2 as primary products. An example is the selective transfer of two carbons in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, showcasing unique outcomes in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane molecules. Ethane's metathesis produces propane and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle releases methane and regenerates the tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule results in n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex. Isobutane's metathesis shows a product distribution influenced by steric effects, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The process can occur at a single site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a key carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of a cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving transition states with seven-membered rings. Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular activation of carbon-carbon bonds in intermediates leads to various products, including cyclopentane and smaller linear alkanes. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms explain ring contraction differences between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution compared to tungsten-based catalysts, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. Propane serves as an example, transforming into ethane and butane. The key step involves pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n  1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Metallacyclobutane intermediates, formed after γ-H activation, undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach. The process involves CH bond activation leading to metal-alkyl and olefin formation, followed by olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, involving the selective transfer of two carbons, highlights unique processes in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes' metathesis involves C-H bond cleavage and methyl group transfer, leading to C-C bond cleavage and formation. The last step liberates methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production despite disfavoring the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4's intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation leads to various intermediates, with α-alkyl transfer yielding 11, which can transform into 3 or 12. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-position carbon-carbon activation in 4 forms ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, leading to smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, differing mechanistically from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution, suggesting less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes through β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity for n + 1 linear homologues is due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. γ-H activation after CH bond activation forms a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Well-defined metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene surface complexes, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues. The mechanism includes paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins, favoring Cn+1 products. Key intermediates, alkenes, and metallacyclobutanes, enhance selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected two-carbon transfer process was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane and 2-methylpropene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, yielding 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2,3-dimethylbutene, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane molecules, leading to C-C bond cleavage and formation. Tantalum hydrides evolve into tantalum-alkyl intermediates, which, in the case of ethane, produce propane and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes, followed by methyl group transfer. Isobutane metathesis results in complex product distributions, influenced by steric factors affecting the formation of tert-butyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources [1]. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, the interaction of olefins and carbenes, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates [3]. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental [4]. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes [7]. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates [5]. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis [6].", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation in intermediates can lead to various products, with α- and β-H transfer processes common for Group 5 transition metals. The β-alkyl transfer mechanism explains ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, which differs from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    