Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of methyl or ethyl substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that yields lower cyclic and acyclic homologues through cycloreversion and subsequent steps. Various metal hydride-based catalysts display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single-site mechanism. The process involves dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, demonstrates selective two-carbon transfer, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. For ethane, this leads to propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex formation. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, producing tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates, followed by methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quote 3, 4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more plausible than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6, 17). Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates (Quotes 8-14). β-alkyl transfer mechanisms explain ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, which differs from tantalum hydrides (Quote 15, 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes into new carbene and olefin, leading to hydrogenation and new alkane formation. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer, leading to homologation and liberation of alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism utilizes tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity for higher homologues is due to alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which yields lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion and subsequent steps. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. The mechanism is driven by intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, involving the selective transfer of two carbons, highlights the versatility of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher homologs are produced from propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do. Ethane's metathesis presents no selectivity issues due to its single C-C bond. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. Tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates during the reaction. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer and C-C bond cleavage and formation. Higher alkanes, such as propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, forming tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by the formation of two tantalum-alkyl intermediates, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl species occurring in substantial amounts despite steric disfavor.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydrides. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quotes 3-4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis (Quotes 6, 17). Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12, which facilitate ring contraction (Quotes 8-13). α- and β-H transfer processes are common for Group 5 transition metals, allowing intermediates to fall into carbon-carbon activation manifolds (Quote 14). Group 4 metal hydrides show a mechanistic difference in ring contraction (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the reaction initiates with CH bond activation, forming a tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tantalum catalysts offering a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion and steps like hydrogenolysis and hydrogenation to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Propane metathesis yields olefins and H2. Unexpected transformations, like 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, demonstrate selective two-carbon transfer, a novel observation in alkane metathesis. The mechanism's efficiency and selectivity are influenced by intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond of a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage of acyclic alkanes, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Subsequent methyl group transfer from propane to these intermediates yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is noteworthy for its product distribution, with C-H bond activation producing tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric reasons may disfavor the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species, yet substantial neopentane production occurs from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism hinges on π-bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is modeled on olefin metathesis, minimizing steric hindrance in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and subsequent steps involving a metallacyclobutane intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4's intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation yields various intermediates, with α-alkyl transfer leading to 11, which can transform into 3 or 12. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-position carbon-carbon activation in 4 forms ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, facilitating smaller ring system formation. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, differing mechanistically from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distributions compared to tungsten-based catalysts, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that yields lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH bond activation, forming a metal-alkyl and subsequent olefin, followed by olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, are crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance. An alumina-supported tungsten hydride unexpectedly transforms 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, showcasing the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond of a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to the formation of higher and lower homologs. The simplest case, ethane metathesis, involves C-C bond cleavage and formation, liberating propane and forming a tantalum-methyl complex. The last step regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex and liberates methane. Higher alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane form neopentane, which only leads to a surface tantalum-neopentyl species due to steric hindrance. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This is exemplified in the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, where the initial C-H bond activation yields tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Subsequent methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule forms n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then yields ethane.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. A single-site or dual-site mechanism is possible, with propane conversion yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes as an example.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, forming different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydrides. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quote 4), deactivating the catalyst (Quote 5). Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis (Quote 5), indicating mechanistic differences (Quote 16). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Pathways 4 and 5 explain the formation of various products, with α-alkyl transfer leading to intermediate 11, which can transform into 3 or 12 (Quote 9). β-alkyl transfer accounts for two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems (Quote 13).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. This mechanism, crucial for CC bond formation and cleavage, enhances selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with the key step involving γ-H activation to form a metallacyclobutane intermediate. This intermediate undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Metallacyclobutanes and alkenes are crucial intermediates affecting selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation, releases propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric hindrance, with neopentane production despite disfavoring the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes, with selectivity based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl derivatives (Quote 4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction (Quote 15). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition due to seven-membered ring transition states (Quote 17). Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, lead to various intermediates, with β-alkyl transfer explaining one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-H and α-H transfer steps transform intermediates, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides begins with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. Alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield carbene hydride and olefin hydride species, which interact to form tantalum cyclobutane. This decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin species, hydrogenated to new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, exemplified by propane transforming into ethane and butane. The key step involves pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes through β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, formed in situ, where alkene intermediates are converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Well-defined metal hydrides, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. An unexpected two-carbon transfer was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlighting the role of intermediates in selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures (25-200C), as per Quote 1. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature (Quote 2), and this applies to propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane (Quote 3). The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond (Quote 4). Cyclic alkanes do not react (Quote 5), while acyclic alkanes do, leading to higher and lower homologs (Quote 6). Ethane's metathesis presents no selectivity issues (Quote 7), whereas higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement (Quote 8). Branched alkanes like isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species (Quote 9). The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate (Quote 10), enabling C-C bond formation and cleavage, liberating propane and forming a tantalum-methyl complex (Quote 11). Methane liberation and catalyst regeneration occur through a four-centered transition state (Quote 12). The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species (Quote 13), followed by methyl group transfer and C-C bond cleavage and formation (Quote 14). Higher alkanes, like propane, form n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation (Quote 15), with subsequent methyl group transfer leading to n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex (Quote 16). Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric factors (Quote 17), with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex (Quote 18).", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Propane conversion demonstrates the formation of ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis, involving γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl complex, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show ring size dependence. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving transition states with seven-membered rings. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, leads to intermediates that can transform into other intermediates via hydrogen addition or transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms explain ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, which is size-dependent, differing from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. From this, alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Their interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, exemplified by propane's conversion into ethane and butane, involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates in a pi-bond metathesis mechanism, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Metallacyclobutane intermediates, formed after γ-H activation, undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with selectivity for Cn+1 products over Cn+2. The process includes CH bond activation, olefin formation, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Unexpected transformations, such as 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, demonstrate selective two-carbon transfer, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes at moderate temperatures, converting them into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, undergo similar conversions. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes lead to the formation of higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and create a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is noteworthy for its product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. The formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species is disfavored due to steric reasons, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to its conversion into an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, facilitating the formation of smaller cyclic products through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, explain the formation of various products, with β-alkyl transfer accounting for one-carbon ring-contraction products. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism's dependence on alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming surface tantalum alkyl complexes. From these, carbene hydride and olefin hydride species are produced via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation of these species yields new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. This process involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, and subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with a key step involving γ-H activation leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach. The mechanism involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, demonstrates selective transfer of two carbons, a novel process in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates, cleaving and forming C-C bonds. Ethane's metathesis produces propane and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle releases methane and regenerates the tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule evolves n-butane and isobutane. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric hindrance, with neopentane production despite disfavoring the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond-cleavage step. Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl complex, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more likely than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Pathways involving intermediates 4, 11, and 12 explain the formation of smaller cyclic products through α- and β-alkyl transfer steps, leading to the formation of smaller ring systems. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism and the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tantalum favoring 1,2-disubstituted intermediates more than tungsten, resulting in a broader product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates are involved, with pi-bond metathesis being the key step for carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, contributing to catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to metallacyclobutane intermediates, which undergo cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a single site approach, where electrophilic tantalum hydrides activate CH bonds, leading to olefin formation and subsequent metathesis. The process selectively forms Cn+1 products over Cn+2, with olefins and H2 as primary products from propane metathesis. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, contribute to selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer process was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear or branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane also undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes do not react catalytically. The metathesis of ethane, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes, such as propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, forming tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. The subsequent methyl group transfer yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which releases methane and regenerates the active species. The metathesis of isobutane results in a complex product distribution, influenced by steric factors in the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism, involving π-bond metathesis and alkylidene hydrides as intermediates, is influenced by ancillary ligands, which have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. A single-site or dual-site mechanism is possible. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates are formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quotes 3, 4), deactivating the catalyst. Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6, 17). Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). Pathways 4 and 5 involve α- and β-alkyl transfers, leading to intermediates 3, 6, 11, and 12, with hydrogen transfer processes explaining product formation (Quotes 8-14).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    