Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation of these species results in new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution compared to tungsten-based catalysts, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation yields a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion and steps like hydrogenolysis to produce cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a single site approach, where a highly electrophilic catalyst facilitates the transfer of a single carbon between chains, cleaving and forming CH and CC bonds. The mechanism includes paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis confirm olefins and H2 as primary products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, are essential for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, demonstrates selective transfer of two carbons, expanding the scope of alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar conversions. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to various homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to the involvement of various C-H and C-C bonds. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, similar to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, facilitating smaller cyclic product formation through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis. Intermediate 4's intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation generates various intermediates, with α-alkyl transfer leading to 11, which can transform into 3 or 12. β-alkyl transfer explains cyclopentane and pentane formation but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Simple hydrogen-transfer processes from 11 to 6 or 12 account for all products. β-position carbon-carbon activation in 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, forming smaller rings. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer, common for Group 5 metals. Group 4 metal hydrides' β-alkyl transfer mechanism differs in ring size dependence, indicating mechanistic differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten catalysts yield a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs, exemplified by propane's transformation into ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with pi-bond metathesis being the critical step for carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, influencing catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, enhance reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, involving the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, producing higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane and methyl butane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule to these intermediates yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is noteworthy for its product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric reasons may disfavor the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species, yet substantial neopentane production occurs from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is determined by minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can operate via a single site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quotes 3, 4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quotes 6, 17). Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). Pathways 4 and 5 involve intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into other intermediates via hydrogen transfer (Quotes 8, 9, 10, 11). β-alkyl transfer explains the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products (Quote 10). Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller rings (Quote 13). Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer (Quote 14). The β-alkyl transfer mechanism in Group 4 metal hydrides contrasts with silica-supported tantalum hydrides, indicating a mechanistic difference (Quotes 15, 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with pi-bond metathesis facilitating carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An example is the selective transfer of two carbons in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, highlighting the role of intermediates in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis involves C-C bond cleavage and formation, liberating propane and forming a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric hindrance, with neopentane production despite disfavoring the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation process, with alkylidene hydrides as key intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Propane metathesis results in ethane, butane, and minor products, illustrating the process. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site process, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation, forming metallacyclobutane intermediates that undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to further hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into 3 or undergo hydrogen transfer, explaining product formation. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller rings. Most intermediates can engage in α- or β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides show different ring contraction mechanisms, dependent on alkane size, indicating a mechanistic difference.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts offer narrower product distributions, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane, involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates in a pi-bond metathesis mechanism, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. A key step involves γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. This involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlighting selectivity in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, produce various homologs. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having a single C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The catalyst transforms from tantalum hydride to tantalum-alkyl during the reaction. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. Methane liberation and catalyst regeneration occur in the final step. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, hydrogen production, and methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule produces n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, leading to ethane. Isobutane's metathesis shows a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, introduced to control catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis stems from its reaction with the catalyst, forming a cyclopentyl derivative that evolves into an inactive cyclopentadienyl complex, leading to catalyst deactivation. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4's intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation in α or β positions leads to various intermediates, with α-alkyl transfer yielding 11, which can transform into 3 or 12 via hydrogen addition or successive β-H and α-H transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in the β position of 4 can be seen as a β-alkyl transfer, leading to ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, which facilitate the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer processes, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size, highlighting mechanistic differences between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Their interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution, suggesting less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. This process, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane, is key to the selectivity and performance of the catalyst in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating alkenes via β-H transfer and the other evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity for higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, hydrogenolyze with the catalyst, yielding lower cyclic homologues. The key step involves γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues via a single site mechanism. The process involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, enhance reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case of 2-methylpropane transforming to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane C-C bonds. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes lead to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. Tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates during metathesis. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage releases propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step liberates methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer and C-C bond cleavage and formation. Higher alkanes, like propane, form n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule evolves n-butane and isobutane, forming a tantalum-ethyl complex that yields ethane. Isobutane's metathesis, with a product distribution influenced by steric reasons, produces neopentane in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. A single-site or dual-site mechanism is possible, with propane conversion yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes as an example. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site scheme involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quote 4), deactivating the catalyst. Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, indicating a ring size dependence. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition due to seven-membered ring transition states (Quote 17). Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways involving α- and β-alkyl transfers explain the formation of various products, with β-alkyl transfer accounting for cyclopentane and smaller linear products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism's dependence on alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides begins with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts yield a narrower product distribution, suggesting less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cycloalkyl derivatives undergo γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that yields lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues via a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes as intermediates enhance catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the conversion of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule. Acyclic alkanes react, while cyclic alkanes do not. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, produces propane and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides facilitate CH bond activation, alkene generation via β-H transfer, and alkylidene hydride formation via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quote 4), deactivating the catalyst. Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis (Quote 15), indicating a mechanistic difference. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis (Quote 17). Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, produces intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into 3 or undergo hydrogen transfer, respectively (Quotes 9, 11). β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller rings (Quote 12). The mechanistic difference with Group 4 metal hydrides is highlighted by the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to new carbene and olefin, hydrogenating to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution compared to tungsten-based catalysts, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs through a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after CH bond activation forms a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis confirm the formation of olefins and H2. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a critical role in selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, expanding the understanding of alkane metathesis mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane molecules, leading to C-C bond cleavage and formation. Cyclic alkanes do not react catalytically. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex formation. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes' metathesis follows a similar mechanism, with C-H bond activation yielding different tantalum-alkyl intermediates, followed by methyl group transfer to produce n-butane, isobutane, and other homologs. Isobutane's metathesis shows a product distribution influenced by steric hindrance, with neopentane production despite disfavoring the tert-butyl intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism hinges on π-bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is governed by minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with one site generating olefins and the other conducting metathesis. Lower homologues form through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides facilitate CH bond activation, generating alkenes and Ta-alkylidene hydrides. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which are then hydrogenated and hydrogenolyzed to produce lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydrides. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, with cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leading to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative. Cyclohexane hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show ring size dependence. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5 involve intramolecular activation of carbon-carbon bonds, leading to intermediates that can transform into various products. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms explain ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, differing from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distributions than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs, exemplified by propane transforming into ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a crucial role, with pi-bond metathesis being the key step in carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, influencing catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after CH bond activation forms metallacyclobutane intermediates, which undergo cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins on the metal-hydride. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, contribute to selectivity and catalyst performance. The process selectively forms Cn+1 products over Cn+2 ones. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, demonstrates the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane molecules. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming higher and lower homologs. Neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides become tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, like propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric factors.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into 3 or 6, respectively. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size, differing mechanistically from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with pi-bond metathesis facilitating carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, essential for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes and alkylidene species through β-H and α-H transfers, respectively. The alkene undergoes homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. γ-H activation forms a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are crucial intermediates affecting selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane, undergo similar conversions. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming various homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and create a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is noteworthy for its product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric reasons may disfavor the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species, yet substantial neopentane production occurs from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which is size-dependent. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, facilitating smaller cyclic product formation through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, generates intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into 3 or undergo β-H and α-H transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, aiding smaller ring system formation. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer, common for Group 5 metals. Group 4 metal hydrides exhibit different ring contraction mechanisms, suggesting mechanistic differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    