Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of methyl or ethyl substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts offer narrower product distributions, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, yielding cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion and subsequent steps. Catalysts based on metal hydrides display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a single site approach, where a highly electrophilic catalyst facilitates the transfer of a single carbon between chains. The mechanism includes CH bond activation leading to metal-alkyl formation, subsequent olefin generation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis reveal olefins and H2 as primary products. The role of intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes is essential for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the potential for selective two-carbon transfer in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, undergo similar reactions. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage releases propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer and C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex occurring in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with one site generating olefins and the other conducting metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates forming and converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and subsequent steps involving a metallacyclobutane intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quotes 3-4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more plausible than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 17). Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. The mechanism for Group 4 metal hydrides differs, with ring contraction best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on ring size (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of methyl or ethyl substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, crucial for understanding the mechanism's contribution to catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage occurring via pi-bond metathesis, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, where alkene intermediates are converted within the coordination sphere of the metal center. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. The key step in cyclic alkane transformations involves γ-H activation after CH bond activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with higher selectivity for Cn+1 products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a critical role in selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case is the selective transfer of two carbons in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane and butane yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes undergo metathesis. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane molecules, leading to C-C bond cleavage and formation. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, producing tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. The metathesis of isobutane, influenced by steric hindrance, produces neopentane in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, efficiently transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism hinges on π-bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, though aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is governed by minimizing steric hindrance in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and formation of a metallacyclobutane intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quote 4), deactivating the catalyst. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition due to seven-membered ring transition states (Quote 6). Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, leads to intermediate 11, which can transform into 3 or 12 via hydrogen addition or successive β-H and α-H transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 (Pathway 4) yields ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides exhibit different ring contraction mechanisms, dependent on alkane ring size (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex leads to carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin results in a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts yield a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are crucial intermediates, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, involving the selective transfer of two carbons, was observed with an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates, cleaving and forming C-C bonds. Infrared spectroscopy confirms the disappearance of tantalum hydride and its transformation into a tantalum-alkyl complex. Ethane's metathesis releases propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex, followed by methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes, with subsequent methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis, influenced by steric factors, results in substantial neopentane production.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation process, with alkylidene hydrides as key intermediates. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to performance. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates, including 11, which can transform into 3 or 12. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, accounts for two-carbon ring-contraction products like cyclopentane, but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Conversion of 11 to 6 and 12 by hydrogen-transfer processes explains all product formations. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 as a β-alkyl transfer leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides show ring contraction via β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size, differing mechanistically from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides begins with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tantalum favoring these interactions more than tungsten, resulting in a broader distribution of products.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes like propane into ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with pi-bond metathesis being the critical step for carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, influencing catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl, olefin formation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are crucial intermediates affecting selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, involving the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule. During the reaction, tantalum hydrides become tantalum-alkyl intermediates, which cleave C-C bonds, forming propane and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle regenerates the active species, liberating methane. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes, followed by methyl group transfer. The metathesis of isobutane produces a distribution of products, influenced by steric hindrance in the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered performance. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes, illustrating the process. Selectivity is determined by minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key process, involving 1-alkenes. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl derivatives, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5 involve intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into 3 or 9, respectively, facilitating the formation of cyclohexane or methylcyclopentane. β-alkyl transfer explains ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, highlighting mechanistic differences with tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with the key step involving γ-H activation to form a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, have been developed, displaying similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a single site approach, where a highly electrophilic tantalum hydride facilitates the transfer of a single carbon between chains. Key steps include paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. The mechanism is driven by intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, which are crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, involving the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher homologs are produced from propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes lead to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. Isobutane's metathesis shows interesting product distribution, with steric hindrance affecting the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species, yet neopentane is produced in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. For instance, propane conversion yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quotes 3 & 4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis and direct oxidative addition (Quote 6 & 17). Pathways involving intermediates 4, 11, and 12 explain the formation of smaller cyclic and linear products through α- and β-alkyl transfer mechanisms, leading to the creation of smaller ring systems like cyclohexane and methylcyclopentane.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts offer narrower product distributions, suggesting less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than with tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. The key step involves γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes, and metallacyclobutanes, enhance selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case of 2-methylpropane and 2-methylpropene transformation by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride highlights selective two-carbon transfer, not typically seen in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher homologs are obtained from propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by steric factors.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis, catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have not improved catalyst performance. Propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis, involving γ-H activation to form metallacyclobutane intermediates, which undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of a cyclopentadienyl derivative, an inactive complex that deactivates the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates, including 11 and 12, via α- and β-H transfer processes. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, transforms 11 into 3 or 12, explaining two-carbon ring-contraction products like cyclopentane. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 yields ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller rings. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-carbon-carbon activation, common for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides exhibit β-alkyl transfer-dependent ring contraction, differing mechanistically from tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs through a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues. The key step involves γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are crucial intermediates affecting selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between tantalum-alkyl intermediates and alkane molecules. For ethane, this leads to propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. The C-H bond cleavage step produces hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, C-C bond cleavage, and formation. Higher alkanes, such as propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl transfer steps. Isobutane metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, a key process where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via a single site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, deactivating the catalyst (Quote 4). Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, highlighting mechanistic differences (Quote 15). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, explain the formation of various products. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms in Group 4 metal hydrides show ring size dependence, differing from tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides begins with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Their interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation results in new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage occurring via pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity for n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 product formation. An example of selective two-carbon transfer is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, producing various homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having a single C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane and methyl butane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. Tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates during the reaction. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by the C-H bond activation step, producing two tantalum-alkyl intermediates, with neopentane formation despite steric disfavor.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is determined by minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results from its reaction with the catalyst, forming an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative. This pathway deactivates the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, contrasting with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving transition states with seven-membered rings. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular activation of carbon-carbon bonds in intermediates leads to various products, including cyclopentane and smaller linear alkanes. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms explain ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, differing from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the reaction initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to tantalum cyclobutane formation, which decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates results in new alkanes. Product selectivity is influenced by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tantalum catalysts offering broader product distributions compared to tungsten-based catalysts, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "At 150 degrees Celsius, silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting propane to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates are involved, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage through pi-bond metathesis being the key step, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. The key step for cyclic alkanes involves γ-H activation after CH bond activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site mechanism. This involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Metallacyclobutanes and alkenes act as intermediates, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis involves C-C bond cleavage and liberation of propane, forming a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis results in a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. A single-site or dual-site mechanism is possible, with propane conversion yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer, regenerating tantalum hydrides, while the other evolves to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer (Quote [2]). The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues (Quote [3]). The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes (Quote [4]), with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere (Quote [5]). Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates (Quote [6]). Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues. This process likely involves γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, leading to smaller cyclic products through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, explain the formation of various products, including cyclopentane and smaller linear alkanes. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 forms ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the creation of smaller ring systems. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism's dependence on alkane ring size and the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    