Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distributions than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "At 150 degrees Celsius, silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane. This process involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with pi-bond metathesis playing a key role in carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes and alkylidene species through β-H and α-H transfers, respectively. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. Metallacyclobutane intermediates, formed after γ-H activation, undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, influence reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. A single site approach facilitates the transfer of a single carbon, cleaving and forming CH and CC bonds. An unexpected two-carbon transfer was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to the involvement of multiple C-H and C-C bonds. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes undergo metathesis. Neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. For ethane, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. Methane liberation and catalyst regeneration occur through a new four-centered transition state. Higher alkanes, like propane, produce n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation, forming tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates, followed by methyl group transfer to yield n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex. The metathesis of isobutane involves complex product distribution, influenced by steric factors affecting the formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites, one for olefin generation and the other for metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results from its reaction with the catalyst, forming an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative. This deactivation pathway is responsible for catalyst inactivity. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides, showing a ring size dependence. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, yields intermediate 11, which can transform into intermediate 3 or 12 via hydrogen transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer explains two-carbon ring-contraction products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Simple hydrogen-transfer processes from 11 to 6 and/or 12 explain all product formations. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4's β position can be seen as a β-alkyl transfer, leading to ω-alkenyl complexes and smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can fall into carbon-carbon activation manifolds due to common α- and β-H transfer processes for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by a β-alkyl transfer mechanism, dependent on alkane ring size, differing mechanistically from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, which interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane. Decomposition of this cyclobutane produces new carbene and olefin species, hydrogenated to form new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with pi-bond metathesis facilitating carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, essential for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues via a single site mechanism. The process involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis confirm the formation of olefins and H2. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a critical role in selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the unique selectivity of tantalum hydride catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. Ethane's metathesis produces propane and a tantalum-methyl complex, with methane liberation regenerating the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates, followed by methyl group transfer to produce n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, similar to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes yields lower alkanes, including cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst (Quote 4). Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, indicating a ring size dependence (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis and direct oxidative addition due to transition states with seven-membered rings (Quote 6, 17). Pathways of carbon-carbon bond activation, including α- and β-alkyl transfer, explain the formation of various products, with β-alkyl transfer accounting for one-carbon ring-contraction products. The conversion of intermediates by hydrogen-transfer processes allows for the explanation of all product formations.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, as exemplified by propane's transformation into ethane and butane. This process contributes to catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that can yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl, olefin formation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis confirm olefin and H2 production. The mechanism's complexity is highlighted by the unexpected two-carbon transfer in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis shows a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. The selectivity of initiation products is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, similar to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, favoring metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction, best explained by β-alkyl transfer. The mechanism allows for the formation of smaller cyclic products through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes, with intermediates undergoing α- or β-carbon activation, leading to various products. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts yielding a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than with tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a crucial role, with pi-bond metathesis being the key step in carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, impacting selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer, leading to homologation and the liberation of lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion occurring within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that yields lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on different oxide supports, have been developed with similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach. The mechanism involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis confirm olefin and H2 production. Alkenes and metallacyclobutanes are critical intermediates for selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, involving the selective transfer of two carbons, was observed.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, undergo similar reactions. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to various homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Isobutane and methyl butane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species due to steric hindrance. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which are liberated as lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates are converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis stems from its transformation into an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, leading to catalyst deactivation. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with the inactivity of Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition due to seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and metallacyclobutane hydrogenolysis. Intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation in intermediates leads to various products, with β-alkyl transfer explaining ring contraction and product diversity. β-alkyl transfer also accounts for the mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides, highlighting size dependence in ring contraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. From this, alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride, which interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane. Decomposition of this intermediate produces new carbene and olefin species, hydrogenated to form new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts yield a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. This mechanism, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane, contributes to the selectivity and performance of the catalyst in various alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, formed in situ, where alkene intermediates are converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Developed catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. An alumina-supported tungsten hydride unexpectedly transforms 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, showcasing the selective transfer of two carbons, a unique feature in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane is converted into propane and methane at room temperature [(Si-0-Si=)(=Si-0-),Ta-H]. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, and pentane, as well as from isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond of a second alkane molecule. During the metathesis, the tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate, enabling C-C bond formation and cleavage, which liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex [Ta]-H. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and regeneration of the active tantalum-ethyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site process, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer (Quote [2]). Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues (Quote [3]). The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes (Quote [4]). Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates (Quote [6]). Selectivity for higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key process, involving mainly 1-alkenes (Quote [7]). Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis results in the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst (Quote 4). Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, which favor β-alkyl transfer for ring contraction, tantalum hydrides involve metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates (Quote 15). Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes, while intermediates undergo α- or β-carbon activation, leading to various products. Mechanistic differences between Group 4 and tantalum hydrides are evident in ring-contraction products and reaction dependence on alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. Alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride, which interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane. Decomposition of this intermediate produces new carbene and olefin species, hydrogenated to form new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts yield a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than with tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer, leading to homologation and liberation of lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity for n + 1 linear homologues is due to alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, forming metallacyclobutane intermediates via γ-H activation, yielding lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts based on metal hydrides display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site approach. The mechanism involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a crucial role in reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, showcases the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures (25-200C). Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, as well as branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, yield various homologs. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates. Subsequent methyl group transfer from propane to these intermediates yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which then produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is intriguing due to its product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. The formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species is disfavored for steric reasons, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Propane conversion demonstrates the formation of ethane, butane, and minor products, illustrating the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates formed and converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity for higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results from its reaction with the catalyst, forming an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, leading to catalyst deactivation. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving transition states with seven-membered rings. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, explain the formation of various products. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms are size-dependent and differ between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates. For instance, propane is transformed into ethane and butane, illustrating the role of these intermediates in reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts based on metal hydrides display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with higher selectivity for Cn+1 products. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis reveal olefins and H2 as primary products. The mechanism is characterized by the formation and role of intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual example of 2-methylpropane transforming into 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene into 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, showcases selective two-carbon transfer, a process not typically observed.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis involves C-C bond cleavage, liberating propane and forming a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes' metathesis produces n- and isobutane from propane, with methyl group transfer and C-C bond cleavage. Isobutane's metathesis shows a distribution favoring neopentane formation despite steric hindrance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, similar to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer (Quote [2]). The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ (Quote [4]). Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates (Quote [6]). Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane (Quote 1). Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quotes 3-4), deactivating the catalyst. Ring size dependence is observed, with cyclohexane undergoing hydrogenolysis unlike Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6). Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). Pathways 4 and 5 involve intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12 (Quotes 8-10). β-alkyl transfer explains the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products (Quote 10). Hydrogen-transfer processes enable the formation of all products (Quote 11). β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems (Quote 12). Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer (Quote 14). Group 4 metal hydrides show ring contraction through β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size (Quote 15). The formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products highlights a mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. From this, alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride, which interact to form a tantalum cyclobutane. Decomposition produces new carbene and olefin species, hydrogenated to create new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts offer narrower product distributions, suggesting 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane is less favored with tungsten than tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer, leading to homologation and liberation of lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that yields lower cyclic and acyclic homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues. The mechanism involves CH bond activation, forming a metal-alkyl and olefin, followed by olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, enhance reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An example is the selective transfer of two carbons in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, illustrating the role of intermediates in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, like propane, undergo C-H bond activation, forming tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl intermediates, leading to n-butane and isobutane. Neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species, likely due to steric hindrance, with subsequent neopentane production.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, similar to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Propane metathesis exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling catalyst reactivity and selectivity, have not improved performance to date.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative (Quotes 3, 4), deactivating the catalyst. Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis (Quote 5), and the mechanism likely involves metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates rather than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 6). The formation of smaller cyclic products is explained by rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes (Quote 7). The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism and the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products (Quotes 15, 16).", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex leads to carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species results in a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts yielding a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting propane to ethane and butane. The reaction involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 and n - 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach. The mechanism involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a crucial role in the reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel process in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond of a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes lead to the formation of higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, involves C-C bond cleavage and formation, liberating propane and forming a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle concludes with methane liberation and regeneration of the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes undergo C-H bond cleavage, producing tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, cleavage, and formation of C-C bonds. Neopentane's metathesis is limited by steric reasons, forming a surface tantalum-neopentyl species. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by the formation of two tantalum-alkyl intermediates, with neopentane production occurring despite steric disfavor.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Propane conversion exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion as a key carbon-carbon bond cleavage step (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's reluctance to undergo hydrogenolysis is due to its reaction with the catalyst, forming a cyclopentyl derivative that evolves into an inactive cyclopentadienyl complex (Quotes 3 and 4), leading to catalyst deactivation. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides (Quote 5). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are more probable than σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition (Quote 17). The formation of smaller cyclic products is explained by rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. The ring contraction mechanism for Group 4 metal hydrides is best explained by a β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size (Quote 15). This highlights a mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    