Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comprehensive mechanistic investigation of alkane metathesis processes catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides: From linear to cyclic alkanes and the role of reaction intermediates'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene hydride and olefin hydride species via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, which interact to create a tantalum cyclobutane. Decomposition of this cyclobutane produces new carbene and olefin species, leading to hydrogenation and new alkanes. Product selectivity is influenced by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts yielding a narrower product distribution compared to tantalum, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, dehydrogenation to metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Key intermediates, alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, influence reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, involving the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species due to steric hindrance. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes produce homologs. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes, followed by methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis, influenced by steric factors, produces neopentane in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. A single-site or dual-site mechanism is possible, with propane metathesis yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes as an example.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, which liberate lower and higher alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms involve alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results from its reaction with the catalyst, forming an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative, leading to catalyst deactivation. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation in intermediates can lead to various products, with α- and β-H transfer processes common for Group 5 transition metals. The β-alkyl transfer mechanism explains ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, highlighting mechanistic differences between them and silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene and olefin hydride species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Their interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution, suggesting less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten than tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "At 150 degrees Celsius, silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane. This process involves metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer, leading to homologation and liberation of alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, consistent with alkene metathesis as the key process. Cycloalkyl derivatives undergo γ-H activation, forming metallacyclobutane intermediates that yield cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion and subsequent steps. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves paraffin dehydrogenation to form a metal-alkyl and olefin, followed by olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, alkenes, and metallacyclobutanes, enhance catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer was observed in the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower alkanes at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs are produced from propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage of acyclic alkanes, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as n-butane and isobutane formation from propane. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by the formation of two tantalum-alkyl intermediates, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl species occurring despite steric disfavor.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis, involving γ-H activation to form metallacyclobutane intermediates, which undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results from its reaction with the catalyst, forming a cyclopentyl derivative that evolves into an inactive cyclopentadienyl complex, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation in intermediates leads to various products, with β-alkyl transfer pathways explaining the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products. β-alkyl transfer mechanisms in Group 4 metal hydrides contrast with silica-supported tantalum hydrides, indicating mechanistic differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation of these species results in new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer broader product distributions than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "At 150 degrees Celsius, silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates are crucial, with the key step being pi-bond metathesis, impacting selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene intermediates formed and converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. The key step for cyclic alkanes involves γ-H activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Metallacyclobutanes and alkenes act as intermediates, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual example is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, showcasing the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher homologs are produced from propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes like isobutane and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond. Cyclic alkanes do not undergo catalytic reactions, while acyclic alkanes do, leading to higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction, likely due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. A new four-centered transition state facilitates hydrogen transfer from ethane to the methyl ligand. The reaction mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane, involving tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl surface complexes. Methyl group transfer from a second propane molecule to these intermediates yields n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, which produces ethane. Isobutane's metathesis is intriguing due to its product distribution, with C-H bond activation yielding two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. The formation of the tantalum-tert-butyl species is disfavored for steric reasons, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer (Quote [2]). The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene surface complexes (Quote [4]). Both mechanisms involve alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride as key intermediates (Quote [6]). Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process (Quote [7]). Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to various intermediates, including 11 and 12, which can transform into 3 or undergo β-H and α-H transfer steps. Pathway 4 involves β-alkyl transfer, leading to ω-alkenyl complexes like 12, which can insert to form smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can fall into carbon-carbon activation manifolds due to common α- and β-H transfer processes for Group 5 transition metals. Group 4 metal hydrides show a mechanistic difference, with ring contraction best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. The carbene and olefin interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, exemplified by propane's conversion into ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with pi-bond metathesis facilitating carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, crucial for catalyst selectivity and performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 and n  1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. γ-H activation after cycloalkyl derivative formation leads to metallacyclobutane intermediates, which undergo cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation to a metal-alkyl and olefin, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. The mechanism is driven by intermediates like alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, impacting selectivity and catalyst performance. An example is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane, showcasing the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state for C-C bond cleavage and formation. Cyclic alkanes do not react catalytically. Ethane's metathesis, the simplest case, results in propane liberation and a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle ends with methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane's metathesis shows complex product distribution, influenced by steric hindrance in methyl transfer steps.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism hinges on π-bond metathesis, involving olefin and carbene interactions, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Propane conversion exemplifies the process, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is governed by minimizing steric hindrance in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with turnover frequency constant for 40 hours before declining. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating alkenes via β-H transfer and the other evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates form in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates are converted within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydrides. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in homologation. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion (Quote 2). Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes (Quote 4), deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, dependent on ring size (Quote 15). Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, involving seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products arise from rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, explain the formation of various products. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- and β-H transfer processes, common for Group 5 transition metals. Mechanistic differences between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides are highlighted by the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. From this, alpha-H and beta-H abstractions yield carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Their interaction leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. The key step involves γ-H activation, forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Various catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves a single site approach, where a highly electrophilic catalyst facilitates the transfer of a single carbon atom between chains, cleaving and forming CH and CC bonds. Key steps include paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products over Cn+2. The mechanism is characterized by the formation and role of intermediates such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, which influence selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, showcases a selective two-carbon transfer process not previously observed.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar conversions. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a second alkane molecule's C-C bond. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, forming higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having a single C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and create a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage of acyclic alkanes, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, C-C bond cleavage, and formation. Higher alkanes, such as propane, form n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Subsequent methyl group transfer from propane to these intermediates produces n-butane, isobutane, and a tantalum-ethyl complex, leading to ethane. Isobutane's metathesis shows interesting product distribution, with C-H bond activation producing two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric hindrance disfavors tert-butyl formation, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on tantalum-tert-butyl occurs significantly.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Propane conversion exemplifies this, yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates, akin to olefin metathesis. The mechanism can operate via single or dual sites, with lower alkane homologues formed through ligand exchange and α-H abstraction on carbene intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues through γ-H activation and subsequent steps.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis results in the formation of a cyclopentyl derivative, evolving to an inactive cyclopentadienyl complex, deactivating the catalyst. Unlike Group 4 metal hydrides, cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis with tantalum hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intermediate 4 undergoes intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, leading to intermediates 11 and 12, which can transform into other intermediates via hydrogen transfer. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, explains the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products, but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. β-alkyl transfer in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- and β-H transfer processes, common for Group 5 transition metals. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and silica-supported tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism's dependence on alkane ring size.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the reaction initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to produce new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates results in new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions of methyl or ethyl substituents in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution compared to tungsten-based catalysts, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes into their lower and higher homologs via a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis via two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes through β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to alkane homologues through hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. The one-site mechanism involves tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, yield lower cyclic homologues through hydrogenolysis. γ-H activation forms a metallacyclobutane intermediate, undergoing cycloreversion and subsequent steps to produce cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves CH and CC bond cleavage and formation, with key steps including paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins. Selectivity favors Cn+1 over Cn+2 products. Metallacyclobutanes and alkenes act as intermediates, influencing selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual example is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, showcasing the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane, yield various homologs. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates, cleaving and forming C-C bonds. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes do, producing homologs. Ethane's metathesis, having a single C-C bond, doesn't present selectivity issues. Higher alkanes involve multiple C-H and C-C bonds, leading to various homologs. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl species without further reaction. The tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate during the reaction. For ethane, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. Methane liberation and catalyst regeneration occur in the final step. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane shows a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites, one for olefin generation and the other for metathesis. Lower alkane homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site process, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with 1-alkenes participating in the homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show ring size dependence. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis and direct oxidative addition. Pathways include intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation, α- and β-alkyl transfers, and the formation of smaller ring systems like cyclohexane and methylcyclopentane. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism and the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields carbene and olefin species through alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin, which hydrogenate to produce new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates, with tungsten-based catalysts giving a narrower product distribution than tantalum, indicating less favorability of 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane with tungsten.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes like propane into their homologs through a pi-bond metathesis mechanism involving metallacarbene and alkene intermediates, which are crucial for selectivity and catalyst performance in alkane conversions.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving to Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer, leading to homologation and liberation of lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism utilizes tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, with alkene formation and conversion within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, forming metallacyclobutane intermediates that yield lower cyclic and acyclic homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl complexes display similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation, with selectivity favoring Cn+1 products. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a role in selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual case is the transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, showcasing the selective transfer of two carbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at moderate temperatures, converting linear and branched alkanes into next higher and lower homologs. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes yield various homologs due to multiple C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a tantalum-neopentyl complex without further reaction. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state for C-C bond cleavage and formation. Cyclic alkanes do not react catalytically. In ethane metathesis, a tantalum-methyl complex forms, releasing propane. Methane liberation regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. Higher alkanes, such as propane, produce n-butane and isobutane through C-H bond activation and methyl group transfer. Isobutane metathesis shows complex product distribution, influenced by steric factors in methyl transfer steps.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into their lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, a key process where olefins and carbenes interact, cleaving and forming carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far hindered catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower homologues are formed through ligand exchange via CH activation and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides follows two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Alkene intermediates form and convert within the metal center's coordination sphere. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues aligns with alkene metathesis as the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, producing lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition. Smaller cyclic products form via rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Pathway 5, an α-alkyl transfer, yields intermediates that can transform into other intermediates via hydrogen addition or transfer steps. β-alkyl transfer explains the formation of cyclopentane and smaller linear products but not one-carbon ring-contraction products. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, facilitating the formation of smaller ring systems. Most intermediates can undergo α- or β-H transfer processes. Group 4 metal hydrides' ring contraction is best explained by β-alkyl transfer, differing from silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides begins with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex undergoes alpha-H and beta-H abstractions, yielding carbene hydride and olefin hydride species. Interaction of these species leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, which decomposes to new carbene and olefin intermediates. Hydrogenation of these intermediates produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tungsten-based catalysts yield a narrower product distribution, indicating less favorability for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane compared to tantalum.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis at 150 degrees Celsius, converting alkanes like propane into lower and higher homologs, primarily ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates play a key role, with carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage occurring through pi-bond metathesis, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, two mechanisms are proposed. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. The key step for cyclic alkanes involves γ-H activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate that undergoes cycloreversion and subsequent steps to yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Catalysts based on metal hydrides and alkyl alkylidene complexes display similar activities and selectivities to silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, converting lower alkanes to higher homologues through a single site mechanism. The process involves paraffin dehydrogenation, olefin metathesis on a metallocarbene, and hydrogenation of new olefins, with a higher selectivity for Cn+1 products. Kinetic studies on propane metathesis confirm the formation of olefins and H2. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, are crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unusual two-carbon transfer in the transformation of 2-methylpropane and 2-methylpropene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, highlights the specificity of the tantalum hydride mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis reactions of linear and branched alkanes into higher and lower homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher alkanes like propane, butane, and pentane, and branched alkanes such as isobutane and isopentane undergo similar transformations. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state between a tantalum-alkyl intermediate and a carbon-carbon bond of a second alkane molecule. Cyclic alkanes do not react, while acyclic alkanes lead to the formation of higher and lower homologs. Ethane's metathesis, with only one C-C bond, presents no selectivity issues. Higher linear alkanes produce multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Branched alkanes like isobutane react, but neopentane only forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species due to steric hindrance. During metathesis, tantalum hydride transforms into a tantalum-alkyl intermediate. In ethane's case, C-C bond cleavage and formation liberate propane and form a tantalum-methyl complex. The catalytic cycle's final step releases methane and regenerates the active tantalum-ethyl complex. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, producing hydrogen and a tantalum-alkyl species, followed by methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. This mechanism applies to higher alkanes, such as the formation of n-butane and isobutane from propane. The metathesis of isobutane yields a product distribution influenced by steric factors, with neopentane production from methyl transfer on the tantalum-tert-butyl complex occurring in substantial amounts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage and formation process, with alkylidene hydrides as key intermediates. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. The mechanism can be single-site or involve two sites for olefin generation and metathesis. For instance, propane metathesis yields ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes. Lower alkane homologues form through ligand exchange via CH activation on carbene intermediates and α-H abstraction.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. The two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer (Quote [2]). The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, followed by hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis to liberate lower and higher alkane homologues (Quote [3]). The one-site mechanism forms tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates in situ from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes (Quote [4]). Both mechanisms rely on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates (Quote [6]). Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that yields lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane. Ring contraction likely involves carbene de-insertion, a critical carbon-carbon bond cleavage step. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis stems from its reaction with the catalyst, forming an inactive cyclopentadienyl derivative. This pathway deactivates the catalyst. Cyclohexane undergoes hydrogenolysis, unlike with Group 4 metal hydrides. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis or direct oxidative addition due to seven-membered ring transition states. Smaller cyclic products form through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis of metallacyclobutanes. Intramolecular carbon-carbon bond activation in intermediates leads to various products, with α- and β-H transfer processes common for Group 5 transition metals. β-alkyl transfer explains ring contraction in Group 4 metal hydrides, differing from the mechanism in silica-supported tantalum hydrides.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides initiates with CH bond activation, forming a surface tantalum alkyl complex. This complex yields a carbene hydride and an olefin hydride via alpha-H and beta-H abstractions. Interaction of the carbene and olefin leads to a tantalum cyclobutane, decomposing to new carbene and olefin species. Hydrogenation produces new alkanes. Product selectivity is governed by [1,2] and [1,3] interactions in metallacyclobutane intermediates. Tantalum catalysts offer a broader product distribution than tungsten-based ones, indicating a preference for 1,2-disubstituted metallacyclobutane.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0108-4"},
{"DOC": "At 150 degrees Celsius, silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis, exemplified by propane's conversion to ethane and butane. Metallacarbene and alkene intermediates are key, with pi-bond metathesis facilitating carbon-carbon bond formation and cleavage, crucial for reaction selectivity and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1351/pac-con-08-07-18"},
{"DOC": "In alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, the two-site mechanism involves tantalum hydrides as intermediates, with one site generating an alkene via β-H transfer and the other evolving to a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes homologation on the second site, leading to different alkene and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates formed in situ, with alkene intermediates converting within the metal center's coordination sphere. Selectivity favors n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues due to alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Cyclic alkanes undergo hydrogenolysis, with γ-H activation forming a metallacyclobutane intermediate that can yield lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues through cycloreversion, hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement. Developed catalysts, including tantalum hydrides on various oxide supports, exhibit similar activities and selectivities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms lower alkanes into higher homologues through a single site approach. The process involves CH bond activation, olefin metathesis, and hydrogenation, leading to the formation of olefins and H2. Selectivity favors Cn+1 products over Cn+2. Key intermediates, such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes, play a crucial role in reaction selectivity and catalyst performance. An unexpected transformation of 2-methylpropane to 2,3-dimethylbutane and 2-methylpropene to 2,3-dimethylbutene, catalyzed by an alumina-supported tungsten hydride, demonstrates the selective transfer of two carbons, a novel observation in alkane metathesis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b823226a"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze metathesis of linear and branched alkanes into next homologs at moderate temperatures. Ethane transforms into propane and methane at room temperature. Higher and lower homologs result from propane, butane, pentane, isobutane, and isopentane. The mechanism involves a four-centered transition state with tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Cyclic alkanes resist catalytic reactions, unlike acyclic alkanes. Ethane's metathesis, with a single C-C bond, lacks selectivity issues. Higher alkanes yield multiple homologs due to various C-H and C-C bond involvement. Isobutane and methyl butane undergo metathesis, but neopentane forms a surface tantalum-neopentyl species due to steric hindrance. Tantalum hydrides transform into tantalum-alkyl intermediates during metathesis. Ethane's C-C bond cleavage liberates propane and forms a tantalum-methyl complex. Methane liberation and tantalum-ethyl complex regeneration conclude the catalytic cycle. The mechanism includes C-H bond cleavage, hydrogen production, and methyl group transfer, involving C-C bond cleavage and formation. Higher alkanes, like propane, produce n-butane and isobutane via C-H bond activation, yielding tantalum-n-propyl and tantalum-isopropyl complexes. Methyl group transfer from propane to these intermediates evolves n-butane and isobutane, forming a tantalum-ethyl complex that yields ethane. Isobutane's metathesis, with a unique product distribution, produces two tantalum-alkyl intermediates. Steric hindrance disfavors tert-butyl formation, yet neopentane production from methyl transfer on tantalum-tert-butyl is substantial.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.276.5309.99"},
{"DOC": "Alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides transforms alkanes into lower and higher homologues at low temperatures, optimizing oil resources. The mechanism involves π-bond metathesis, where olefins and carbenes interact to cleave and form carbon-carbon bonds, with alkylidene hydrides as critical intermediates. Ancillary ligands, aimed at controlling reactivity and selectivity, have so far been detrimental to catalyst performance. Selectivity is based on minimizing steric interactions in metalla-cyclobutane intermediates. A single-site or dual-site mechanism is possible, with propane metathesis yielding ethane, butane, methane, isobutane, and pentanes as an example.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200602171"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze alkane metathesis through two-site and one-site mechanisms. In the two-site scheme, tantalum hydrides act as intermediates, generating alkenes via β-H transfer and evolving toward Ta-alkylidene hydrides via α-H transfer. Alkenes undergo homologation, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species, with subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis liberating lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism involves in-situ formation of tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates from supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene complexes. Both mechanisms feature alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride intermediates. Selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key process, with 1-alkenes participating predominantly. Cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis, yielding lower cyclic homologues via γ-H activation and formation of metallacyclobutane intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr900122p_5"},
{"DOC": "Silica-supported tantalum hydrides catalyze the hydrogenolysis of cyclic alkanes, yielding lower alkanes and cyclopentane, with ring contraction likely involving carbene de-insertion. Cyclopentane's resistance to hydrogenolysis leads to the formation of inactive cyclopentadienyl complexes, deactivating the catalyst. Cyclohexane's hydrogenolysis contrasts with Group 4 metal hydrides, which show size-dependent ring contraction. Metallacyclobutane and carbene intermediates are favored over σ-bond metathesis, facilitating the formation of smaller cyclic products through rearrangements and hydrogenolysis. Pathways 4 and 5, involving α- and β-alkyl transfers, explain the formation of various products, with β-alkyl transfer accounting for cyclopentane and pentane. Carbon-carbon activation in intermediate 4 leads to ω-alkenyl complexes, forming smaller rings. Most intermediates can undergo α- and β-H transfers, common for Group 5 metals. The mechanistic difference between Group 4 metal hydrides and tantalum hydrides is highlighted by the β-alkyl transfer mechanism and the formation of one-carbon ring-contraction products.", "Doi": "10.1002/chem.200390162"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    