<quotes>
[Catalytic cracking reactions of C4-olefin over zeolites H-ZSM-5, H-mordenite and H-SAPO-34]
Propylene is one of the most important basic organic feedstocks and is currently faced with a serious supply deficit in petrochemical industry as a result of the huge growth in demand for propylene derivatives, e.g., polypropylene. However, the traditional methods for increasing propylene yield are not satisfactory. For example, the naphtha steam cracking process [1, 2],which produces about twice as much ethylene as propylene, is a costly route because of the enormous capital investment and the high feedstock cost. Propane dehydrogenation could give a high yield of propylene but the feedstock is only cost effective during limited periods of the year, making the process expensive enough to limit the production of propylene.
Propylene could also be generated in FCC units but its yield is relatively low. And the route for producing propylene from metathesis of ethylene and butylenes is not attractive since it will consume the same high-value ethylene as the main feedstock. Thus the development of more reasonable processes with high yield of propylene is desirable. One of the most effective approaches for this purpose is to integrate the propylene production process into refinery or petrochemical plants from less valuable feedstock, such as catalytic cracking of mixed C4- or higher carbon olefins [1-8]. Zeolites, because of their outstanding thermal and hydrothermal stability, acidity and shape selectivity, have been widely used in industrial processes [9-11].
In this paper, we explored the possibility to produce propylene via catalytic cracking of surplus C4-olefin over three typical catalysts, namely H-mordenite, H-ZSM-5 and H-SAPO-34, covering the range of 12-, 10-, and 8-member-ring zeolites or zeotypes. Among these samples, the H-ZSM-5 zeolite is by far the most appropriate zeolite catalyst in terms of both the resistance to deactivation and the propylene yield.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The development of processes for high-yield propylene production is crucial due to the increasing demand for propylene derivatives and the limitations of traditional methods. This paper investigates the use of zeolites, specifically H-ZSM-5, H-mordenite, and H-SAPO-34, in the catalytic cracking of C4-olefins to produce propylene. The H-ZSM-5 zeolite is found to be the most suitable catalyst among the three, offering both resistance to deactivation and high propylene yield.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
对于丙烯衍生物需求的增加以及传统方法的局限性，开发高产率的丙烯生产过程至关重要。本文研究了使用沸石（特别是H-ZSM-5、H-蒙脱石和H-SAPO-34）在C4-烯烃催化裂解过程中生产丙烯的可能性。研究表明，在三种材料中，H-ZSM-5沸石是最佳催化剂，它不仅具有抗失活能力，还具有较高的丙烯产率。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
