I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Influence of the kind of VOx structures in VOx/MCM-41 on activity, selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane Highlights • VOx on MCM-41 with surface site density of 0.051.67 nm2 was prepared. • The catalysts were tested in dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane. • VOx species with Lewis-acidic V3+ or V4+ were identified as active sites. • TOF depends on aggregation degree of VOx species. • Isolated VOx species are most active and resistant against deactivation.
Abstract Vanadyl acetylacetonate was carefully grafted on mesoporous silica (MCM-41) to create a series of catalysts with VOx surface site density varying from 0.05 to 1.67 nm2. The catalysts were characterized by UVvis spectroscopy, temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) with H2, and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) of NH3 as well as tested for their activity, selectivity, and onstream stability in non-oxidative dehydrogenation (DH) of propane and isobutane. Lewis-acidic V3+ and V4+ were identified as DH active sites. For both dehydrogenation reactions, a direct correlation between apparent turnover frequency and the mean number of VOV bonds around a central V cation was established. It suggests that isolated VOx species possess higher intrinsic activity in comparison with their oligomerized counterparts. However, selectivity over the former species in isobutane dehydrogenation is lower due to their higher Lewis acidity and, consequently, increased activity for skeletal isomerization of isobutene and for cracking reactions. Since isomerization reactions are impossible for propene its selectivity is only slightly influenced by degree of aggregation of VOx species. Besides activity and selectivity, the rate of catalyst deactivation is also influenced by mean number of VOV bonds; deactivation is low for single VOx sites but increases with rising degree of aggregation of VOx species.
Graphical abstract Download: Download high-res image (64KB) Download: Download full-size image
1. Introduction
Lower olefins are the basis of a wide range of chemical products such as polymers, solvents, paints, dyes, and other chemicals. They are mainly produced by steam cracking of naphtha and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) of high-boiling oil residues. While the demand for ethylene can be covered by these technologies; the share of propene and isobutene cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process that produces about 70% of propene worldwide. FCC has been optimized during the last years and propene yields up to 25% can be reached in modern plants [1] . Besides these two major processes, on-purpose production of lower olefins becomes more important to fulfill the growing demand especially for propene. Non-oxidative dehydrogenation (DH) of propane and isobutane is such attractive alternative to produce propene and isobutene, respectively. There are several processes employing Pt-Sn/Al2O3 (STAR by Phillips and Krupp-Uhde, Oleflex by UOP, PDH by Linde, BASF, Borealis and Statoil) or CrOx/Al2O3 (Catofin by ABB Lummus, FDB by Snamprogetti and Yarsintez) catalysts [2] ,[3] . Both catalysts have, however, disadvantages that are price of Pt and toxicity of Cr. To overcome these drawbacks, current research in both industry and academia is focused on developing novel catalysts for DH of propane or isobutane. On the basis of the results of such ongoing research, supported materials with catalytically active oxides of V, Mo, Fe, Ga, or In, as well as bulk carbon and zinc titanate were identified as promising candidates [3] . VOx/Al2O3 catalysts were also reported to be active and selective in DH of n-butane [4] ,[5] ,[6] . Recently, isolated Co(II) species on SiO2 were shown to catalyze propane DH, too [7] . A new type of DH catalysts is represented by ZrO2-based bulk materials [8] ,[9] ,[10] .
Catalysts with supported VOx are among the most promising because they show good onstream stability and high selectivity. Reduced VOx species are suggested to be the active sites for DH [3] ,[11] ,[12] ,[13] . In general, their performance is typically affected by the kind of support, the presence of dopant, and polymerization degree. For example, VOx/Al2O3 or VOx/SiO2 prepared by simple impregnation of the supports with an aqueous solution of NH4VO3 showed higher activity and selectivity to isobutene in comparison with bulk V2O5 [14] . Activity and selectivity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts could be increased by doping with SnO2 [15] or K2O [13] . Isobutene was produced with high selectivity and onstream stability upon isobutane DH over highly dispersed VOx species on mesoporous silica (MCM-41) in the presence of small amounts of oxygen [16] . Recently, we published a comparative study of isobutane DH over VOx species dispersed on SiO2, Al2O3, and SiO2-Al2O3 [17] . Highest selectivity to isobutene was obtained over VOx/Al2O3 whereas VOx supported on SiO2-containing supports performed less selectively due to coke formation and isomerization of isobutene to n-butenes (1- and 2-butenes). The latter reaction is impossible with propene and therefore propane DH can be selectively catalyzed by VOx/MCM-41 [18] ,[19] ,[20] ,[21] , which performed similar to analogs of CrOx/Al2O3 and Pt-Sn/Al2O3 industrial catalysts [19] . Moreover, it was stable over several DH-regeneration cycles owing to high stability of VOx species against restructuring as was proven by in situ UVvis spectroscopy. Going from SiO2 support to mixed SiO2-Al2O3, VOx on SiO2-Al2O3 with 110 wt.% Al2O3 revealed higher propene productivity in comparison with VOx/SiO2 and VOx/Al2O3 [20] . On the basis of our detailed study of deactivation of VOx/SiO2-Al2O3 catalysts in propane DH, VOx species were concluded to be more active for coke formation than acidic sites of support and their activity to coke formation increases with aggregation degree of VOx species [21] .
Several authors studied the structure of VOx species supported on silica [12] ,[13] ,[22] ,[23] ,[24] ,[25] ,[26] ,[27] ,[28] ,[29] ,[30] ,[31] ,[32] ,[33] . It is generally accepted that single tetrahedrally coordinated VO4 species with a terminal VO bond predominate on the surface of dehydrated catalysts with V loading far below monolayer whereas dimers and polymeric VOx species exist on the surface of higher loaded samples [12] ,[22] ,[24] ,[25] ,[26] ,[27] ,[32] . With respect to acidic properties, oxidized supported V5+ is not acidic but reduced V4+ and V3+ species show Lewis acidity [13] ,[23] ,[31] ,[33] . Hydrated VOx on silica possess Brnsted acidity with higher strength compared to Si-OH groups [22] ,[31] . The reduction behavior of supported V5+ species was studied and it was concluded that their reducibility decreases with degree of aggregation and follows the order: monomeric single sites > poly-vanadates > V2O5 clusters [13] ,[24] .
From the above discussed studies of DH of propane over VOx supported on SiO2, Al2O3 and SiO2-Al2O3, VOx/SiO2 seems to be more selective due to suppressed coke formation. However, in previous studies differently polymerized VOx species were deposited on the surface of supports with different acidic properties, and it was not possible to directly establish relationships between the structure of VOx species and their performance in coke formation. Moreover, for isobutane DH the role of VOx structures in isomerization of C4 alkanes/olefins that determines isobutene selectivity is not properly understood.
To close such gaps, the aim of the present work was to study systematically the influence of the kind of VOx species deposited on the surface of MCM-41 on their activity and selectivity in propane and isobutane DH. This support has been shown to be inert for both alkane dehydrogenation and isomerization of butenes due to the lack of strong acidic sites [17] . In particular, we focused on elucidating whether and how the polymerization degree of VOx species affects their intrinsic DH activity, coke formation and, for isobutane DH, isomerization of this alkane and the corresponding olefin. To this end, a series of catalysts with V loadings between 0.3 and 6.3 wt.% were prepared by grafting vanadyl acetylacetonate onto MCM-41. The structure of VOx surface species as well as their redox and acidic properties were studied by UVvis spectroscopy, temperature-programmed reduction (TPR), and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) of ammonia. The prepared catalysts were tested for their activity, selectivity, and onstream stability in dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane.
2. Experimental details
2.1. Catalyst preparation
Mesoporous silica (MCM-41) used as support was synthesized according to the method described by Grubert et al.
[34] . Supported catalysts were prepared by grafting vanadyl acetylacetonate VO(acac)2 from a toluene solution onto the surface of mesoporous silica (MCM-41) as previously described [20] . Briefly, the dried MCM-41 was added to a solution of dried VO(acac)2 in H2O-free toluene and stirred at room temperature overnight. The solid was filtered, washed four times with toluene, dried at 80 C for 24 h, and finally calcined in static air at 550 C for 12 h. To increase V loading, the grafting was repeated using already calcined catalysts. Detailed preparation conditions and V loadings of the catalysts are given in Table 1 . The catalysts are denoted according to their rounded V content, e.g. 1.4V/MCM means 1.4 wt.% V on MCM-41.
Table 1. Preparation of VOx/MCM-41 samples.
Notation SBET of support (m2 g1) Mass of support (g) Volume of toluene (L) Concentration of VO (acac)2 solution (g L1) Number of impregnation steps () V content c (wt.%) SBET of catalyst (m2 g1)
0.3V/MCM 1045 6.0 0.5 0.20 1 0.35 840
1.4V/MCM 1175 8.0 0.5 1.28 1 1.41 976
1.7V/MCM 982 8.8 1.0 2.41 1 1.71 994
2.4V/MCM 982 2.0
a
0.5 0.36 2 2.38 839
4.1V/MCM 982 10.0 1.0 3.18 1 4.12 878
6.3V/MCM 982 2.0
b
0.5 0.85 2 6.33 447
a Prepared from 1.7V/MCM. b Prepared from 4.1V/MCM. c Determined by ICP-OES.
2.2. Catalyst characterization
The specific surface area (SBET) of the calcined catalysts was determined from N2 adsorption isotherms measured at 77 K on BELSORP mini II (BEL, Japan) applying the Brunauer, Emmet and Teller (BET) equation for relative pressure range of 0.05 < p/p0 < 0.30. The obtained SBET values are listed in Table 1 .The V content in the calcined catalysts was determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) on Varian 715-ES. The measured values are presented in Table 1 .The reducibility of oxidized VOx species was analyzed by temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) with H2 in a setup containing eight individually heated continuous-flow fixed-bed quartz reactors. Fresh catalysts were heated in air at 550 C for 2 h to oxidize VOx species and to remove adsorbed water. After cooling to 50 C, they were flushed with Ar for 15 min and then heated in a flow of 5 vol.% H2 in Ar at 10 K min1 to 900 C. An online mass spectrometer (Pfeiffer Vacuum Omnistar 200) was used to record signals with a frequency of about 1 s1 at the following atomic mass units (AMUs): 2 (H2), 18 (H2O) and 40 (Ar).Acidic sites on the surface of catalysts were quantified by temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) of ammonia in the setup described above for TPR measurements. Before ammonia adsorption at 120 C, three different catalyst treatment procedures were applied: (i) samples were heated to 550 C in a flow of Ar followed by treatment in 5 vol.% H2 in Ar for 1 h at this temperature and cooling down to 120 C in Ar flow, (ii) samples were heated to 550 C in a flow of air for 1 h and then cooled down to 120 C in the same flow, and (iii) samples were dried in Ar flow at 120 C for 2 h. The following procedure was the same for all differently treated samples. After flushing with Ar at 120 C for 1 h, a flow of 1 vol.% NH3 in Ar was passed over the samples for 1 h followed by purging with Ar at 120 C for 2 h and additionally at 80 C for 3 h to remove physisorbed ammonia. Hereafter, the samples with adsorbed NH3 were heated in an Ar flow (10 mL min1) with a rate of 10 K min1 to the final temperature of 900 C. The mass spectrometer was used to record signals at AMUs of 16, 18 and 40 for NH3, H2O and Ar, respectively. AMU 16 was corrected by the share of AMU 16 stemming from water.The amount of coke deposited on the catalysts during propane DH was determined from the temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) experiments carried out in the same set up that was used for TPR and TPD tests. After flushing with Ar at room temperature for 30 min, spent catalysts were heated in a flow of 5 vol.% O2 in Ar at 10 K min1 to the final temperature of 900 C. To quantify the amounts of formed CO and CO2, the quadrupole mass spectrometer was used. The AMUs were analyzed with a frequency of 1 s1: 18 (H2O), 28 (CO and CO2), 32 (O2), 40 (Ar) and 44 (CO2). The concentration of CO2 in the reactor effluents was determined from AMU 44. CO concentration was calculated from AMU 28 after subtraction of the part of AMU 28 originating from CO2 according to its fragmentation pattern. Sensitivity factors for CO and CO2 were obtained from the analyses of calibration gas mixtures. An average selectivity to coke was calculated from the total amount of carbon measured by TPO and the total amount of propane converted during the whole time of DH experiment. The results are reported in Table S2 of supporting information.
2.3. UVvis spectroscopy and determination of edge energies
UVvis measurements were performed at 3050 C after calcining the samples at 550 C in air for 1 h to oxidize reduced VOx species and to remove coordination water from them. A temperature-resistant UVvis probe consisting of six radiating and one reading optical fibers was threaded through the heating mantle and brought in contact with the wall of a quartz reactor containing the catalyst [35] . The spectra were collected in diffusive reflectance mode on an AVASPEC spectrometer equipped with a DH-2000 deuterium-halogen light source (both from Avantes). BaSO4 was used as a white standard. Kubelka-Munk function F( ) was calculated from the reflectance according to Eq.
(1) :(1) Edge energies of the catalysts and reference substances (NH4VO3, MgV2O6, Na3VO4, and V2O5) with known numbers of VOV bonds around a central V cation were determined from the intercept of a tangent at the low energy curve of a plot of [F( )-hν]2 vs. hν according to the method described in [26] . Average numbers of VOV bonds in the catalysts were determined from the obtained edge energies. Details about the applied method are described in supporting information (also see Fig. S1 ). The results are reported in Table 2 .
Table 2. Characteristics of catalysts.
Notation Site density (VOx nm2) Edge energy (eV) Mean number of VOV bonds () NH3 TPD dried a (NH3 nm2) NH3 TPD reduced b (NH3 nm2) NH3 TPD oxidized c (NH3 nm2) Onset of NH3 TPD reduced b
(C)
0.3V/MCM 0.05 3.60 0.03 0.016 0.006 0.002 175
1.4V/MCM 0.17 3.52 0.14 0.032 0.021 0.002 140
1.7V/MCM 0.20 3.54 0.11 0.041 0.020 0.003 155
2.4V/MCM 0.34 3.46 0.24 0.045 0.039 0.005 155
4.1V/MCM 0.55 3.42 0.33 0.090 0.071 0.010 115
6.3V/MCM 1.67 3.44, 2.45 0.30, 4.30 0.181 0.144 0.047 115
a Samples were dried in Ar at 120 C before NH3 adsorption. b Samples were reduced at 550 C and cooled down in Ar to 120 C before NH3 adsorption. c Samples were oxidized at 550 C and cooled down in Ar to 120 C before NH3 adsorption.
2.4. Catalytic tests
Catalytic tests for DH of isobutane or propane were carried out in an in-house developed setup containing 15 continuous-flow fixed-bed quartz reactors (3.8 mm inner diameter) operating in parallel and heated in a common oven. Different amounts of catalysts (0.031 g, particle size of 250450 m) were loaded in the individual reactors and heated in air at 5 K min1 to the reaction temperature of 550 C. After purging with nitrogen the reaction gas mixture (isobutane:nitrogen = 40:60 or propane:nitrogen = 40:60) was fed at different flow rates (620 mL min1) and a pressure of 1.23 bar (absolute).
The feed components and reaction products were quantified by an online gas chromatograph (Agilent 6890) equipped with PoraplotQ (for CO2 and water), HP-PLOT Al2O3 KCl (for methane, ethane, ethylene, propane, propene, n-butane, isobutane, trans-2-butene, cis-2-butene, 1-butene, isobutene, butadiene) and Molsieve 5 (for H2, N2, CO) capillary columns and flame ionization (for hydrocarbons) and thermal conductivity (for other products) detectors. The conversion of isobutane or propane and the selectivity to gas-phase products were calculated according to Eqs.
(2) ,(3) , respectively. Coke selectivity was determined from the difference between unity and the sum of selectivity of all determined gas-phase products (Eq. (4) ).
(2) (3) (4) where feed represents isobutane or propane, S(i) is the selectivity to product i, βi is the number of C atoms in the molecule, and with superscripts inlet and outlet stand for molar flow of gas-phase components at the reactor inlet and outlet, respectively. Changes in gas volume were accounted for using N2 as an internal standard.Reaction rates of isobutene or propene formation were determined from special tests where gas flow rate and catalyst amount were adjusted to hold alkane conversion below 10% (see Table S1 in supporting information ). Apparent turnover frequencies (TOF) of isobutene or propene formation were determined from these rates and the V content in the catalysts. A measure for degree of catalyst deactivation (D) was determined from the yields of formed olefin i at start of DH reaction and after 20 h on stream (Eq. (5) ).
(5)
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Influence of V loading on nature of silica-supported VOx species
Selected details about catalyst preparation and characterization of the calcined catalysts are presented in Table 1 and Table 2 , respectively. Vanadium loading ranges from 0.35 wt.% to 6.33 wt.% as determined by ICP-OES. Apparent V surface densities were calculated by relating the loading to the specific surface area of the catalysts. The obtained values are between 0.05 and 1.67 V nm2. As expected, the specific surface area of bare MCM-41 decreased after V loading and calcination; this decrease is moderate for loadings up to 4 wt.% V but strong for the highest V loading of 6.33 wt.%. The latter catalyst lost half of the surface area of the bare support most probably due to blocking pores of MCM-41 by vanadium oxide.
To gain insight into the structure of the supported VOx species, UVvis spectra of the catalysts were recorded at room temperature after heating the samples in air to 550 C to remove adsorbed water. The obtained spectra are shown in Fig. S2 . In agreement with several previous studies [22] ,[24] ,[25] ,[26] ,[28] ,[36] ,[37] ,[38] , the absorbance is shifted to higher wavelength with an increase in V loading. To compare the catalysts quantitatively, we determined edge energies from the corresponding UVvis spectra according to the method suggested in [26] . The edge energies decrease sharply when increasing V surface density from 0.05 to 0.5 nm2 and then remain constant up to the highest density of 1.67 nm2 ( Fig. 1 a).
Download: Download high-res image (130KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. Dependence of (a) edge energy and (b) average number of VOV bonds of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts on VOx surface site density.
For all catalysts, the apparent surface density of V is lower than the theoretical value for a monolayer of isolated VOx of 2.5 V nm2 [39] ,[40] . Therefore, formation of isolated VOx sites on all catalysts is theoretically possible. However, it is expected that VOx species are statistically distributed on the surface of MCM-41 [32] giving some of them the chance to interact with each other and form dimers or even aggregates of higher degree of polymerization. The probability of forming such condensed species increases with increasing surface density of VOx species and is thus highest for 6.3V/MCM with a site density of 1.67 nm2 that comes close to 2.5 nm2 calculated for the highest possible surface coverage without interaction between the species.For VOx dimers or aggregates of more than two VOx species, VOV bonds should be formed in addition to the V-O-Si bonds characteristic for supported isolated VOx species. The presence of the former bonds can be observed in UVvis spectra by shifting the absorption edge to higher wavelength which results in lower edge energy ( Fig. 1 a). To determine an average number of VOV bonds around a central V atom in supported VOx species on our catalysts, we used the procedure suggested by Gao and Wachs [26] , i.e. we compared the obtained edge energies of our samples with those of the reference materials (NH4VO3, MgV2O6, Na3VO4, and V2O5) having known numbers of VOV bonds. The obtained average number of VOV bonds rises sharply from 0.03 to 0.3 when increasing V surface density from 0.05 to about 0.5 nm2 and then remains nearly constant up to the highest density value of 1.67 nm2 ( Fig. 1 b). However, the highest loaded sample may contain VOx species with higher degree of condensation and consequently higher number of VOV bonds as can be concluded from the additional absorption band at wavelength above 400 nm ( Fig. S2 ). When calculating number of VOV bonds from this part of UVvis spectrum, an average number of VOV bonds of 4.76 is obtained that is close to the number of VOV bonds in crystalline V2O5 thus indicating that a small amount of V2O5 has been formed on the surface of this catalyst besides isolated and low-condensed VOx species. The catalyst with the second highest V loading 4.1V/MCM does not contain any V2O5 as was confirmed by RAMAN spectroscopy ( Fig. S10 ). Thus, all catalysts with V surface densities below 1 nm2 contain mainly isolated VOx species with their share, however, decreasing with an increase in V surface density from 0.05 to about 0.5 nm2.The reducibility of supported VOx species was studied by TPR experiments. The TPR profiles obtained over VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show that the temperature necessary to reduce oxidized VOx species changes with V loading ( Fig. S3 ); the higher the V loading the more difficult is the reduction of the VOx species. A plot of temperature of maximal H2 consumption vs. mean number of VOV bonds shows that VOx sites on low V-loaded catalysts that are mainly isolated sites (see above discussion), and are easier reducible compared to the more condensed ones present at higher surface concentration ( Fig. 2 ). This is in agreement with previous studies [13] ,[24] .
Download: Download high-res image (68KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. Influence of mean number of VOV bonds on temperature of maximal H2 consumption during H2-TPR.
3.2. Acidic properties of silica-supported VOx species
Acidic properties of VOx supported on MCM-41 were studied by NH3-TPD experiments. It should be mentioned that bare MCM-41 is not acidic while VOx species on the surface of SiO2 possess both Brnsted [22] ,[31] and Lewis character [13] ,[23] ,[31] ,[33] , with the former and the latter being acidic OH groups bond to V and reduced VOx species, respectively. Three experiments were performed to determine the kind and the amount of acidic sites on fresh, oxidized, and reduced catalysts. In a first run, NH3 was adsorbed on the samples dried at 120 C for 1 h. Since such catalyst treatment does not remove OH groups, both Brnsted and Lewis sites can be probed by NH3-TPD. In a second experiment, we monitored NH3 desorption from the samples heated in air to 550 C before NH3 adsorption (see Section
2.2
). This treatment was necessary to remove surface OH groups but hold V in its highest oxidation state. In agreement with previous study of Piumetti et al.
[31] , our TPD experiments ( Fig. S4 ) proved water desorption up to 450 C. This is due to the reaction of VOH groups with SiOH groups to form water. In a third experiment, NH3 was desorbed from samples, which had been reduced at 550 C before NH3 was adsorbed at 120 C.
For all the above experiments, the amount of desorbed NH3 was quantified and related to the surface area of each catalyst to get an apparent NH3 surface density, i.e. number of NH3 molecules adsorbed per nm2.
Fig. 3 a shows the obtained values as a function of mean number of VOV bonds. Irrespective of the kind of catalyst treatment, the NH3 surface density increases with rising aggregation of VOx species. It is also obvious that the catalysts preheated at 550 C in an air flow adsorb much less NH3 compared to the dried ones. This is explained by the loss of Brnsted acidic OH groups, where NH3 could be adsorbed. Importantly, the NH3 surface density over the catalysts reduced at 550 C is significantly higher than on the samples calcined in air at 550 C. Since these samples were treated at 550 C, the obtained difference cannot be related to the Brnsted acidity, because such acidic OH groups left the catalyst surface in form of water (see Fig. S4 ). Therefore, we put forward that Lewis acidic sites should be responsible for the higher acidity of samples treated in H2 compared to O2. Such sites are generated upon reduction of V5+ to V4+ and V3+. Lewis acidic VOx species dominate on the surface under DH reaction conditions because VOx is in situ reduced by hydrocarbons to a mean oxidation state of about 4.0 [13] .
Download: Download high-res image (177KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. (a) Influence of mean number of VOV bonds on NH3 adsorption on the surface of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. (b) Dependence of NH3/VOx on mean number of VOV bonds. Sample pretreatment: squares  dried in Ar at 120 C, triangles  reduced at 550 C, circles  oxidized at 550 C.
On the basis of the above discussion of NH3-TPD results, we can conclude that both Brnsted and Lewis acidity of our samples is related to VOx sites. For elucidating the influence of the degree of VOx aggregation on the acidity of such sites, we related the amount of NH3 desorbed to the overall content of vanadium in the catalyst. As seen in Fig. 3 b, irrespective of the type of catalyst treatment, not all VOx species are able to adsorb NH3. The highest ratio of NH3/V between 0.15 and 0.35 was obtained for the dried catalysts (treatment at 120 C) and it depended on the number of VOV bonds. The lower the number, the higher was the ratio. This may be explained by formation of VOx dimers by reaction of two OH groups to give one molecule of water and a VOV bridging bond thus reducing the number of acidic OH groups. With respect to the catalysts treated at 120 C, their counterparts oxidized at 550 C possess a very low fraction (about 2%) of VOx species that adsorb NH3 due to loss of OH groups. However, the catalysts reduced at 550 C before NH3 TPD showed higher proportion of acidic VOx sites. After such treatment V+4 and V+3 are formed from V5+ as observed by XPS for VOx/Al2O3 by Harlin et al.
[41] and Tian et al.
[13] and the former two possess Lewis acidity. The percentage of such species is almost independent on the number of VOV bond from 0.02 to 0.34.
NH3 TPD results also provided information about strength of acidic VOx sites.
Fig. S5 shows the onsets and maxima of NH3 desorption from catalysts with different V loadings. While the maximum is only weakly influenced, the onset temperature of desorption increases strongly with decreasing V loading ( Table 2 and Fig. S5 ). From these experiments we can conclude that isolated VOx species are stronger Lewis sites than dimers or more condensed aggregates.
3.3. Influence of V loading of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts on dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane
The differently loaded VOx/MCM-41 catalysts were tested for their activity, selectivity, and onstream stability in the DH of propane and isobutane with the aim to study the influence of VOx site density on the catalytic performance. To compare the activity of the catalysts we calculated apparent turnover frequencies (TOF) by relating the reaction rates determined at alkane conversion below 10% to the overall number of vanadium atoms. These experiments are not influenced by mass transfer limitation as was shown by applying the Weisz-Prater criterion (see
SI
). The TOF values are compared for propane and isobutane DH in Fig. 4 . Generally, the TOF values are higher for isobutane conversion compared to propane DH. This may be due to lower activation energy for the former reaction caused by weaker C-H bond in the alkane feed. Interestingly, TOF in both reactions strongly decreases with increasing V surface density. From these results and the characterization data discussed in the preceding section it can be concluded that single VOx species are intrinsically more active than their dimeric or higher agglomerated counterparts.
Download: Download high-res image (88KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. Influence of VOx site density on TOF of isobutene (squares) and propene (triangles) formation in DH of isobutane and propane, respectively. Reaction conditions: 550 C, feed gas flow 1060 mL min1 (40% isobutane or propane, 60% nitrogen), catalyst mass 0.030.15 g. Conversion was below 10% over all catalysts.The catalysts also differ in their onstream stability ( Fig. S6 ). To illustrate this, we calculated the relative degree of deactivation after 20 h compared to initial activity according to eq.
(4) . Such procedure for comparing catalysts is possible since most of the catalysts showed similar initial activity. For both, propane and isobutane DH, the relative degree of deactivation increases with an increase in the number of VOV bonds ( Fig. 5 ). Such dependence suggests that isolated VOx show higher resistance against deactivation than aggregated VOx species.
Download: Download high-res image (98KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. Dependence of degree of catalyst deactivation in DH of propane (triangles) and isobutane (squares) after 20 h on mean number of VOV bonds. The values were calculated according to Eq.
(5) .In the following, we discuss the influence of the kind of VOx species on product selectivity. For propane DH, the selectivity to propene at propane conversion of about 12% is only marginal influenced by the number of VOV bonds. Besides propene, which was formed with a selectivity of about 90%, small amounts of cracking products (methane, ethane, and ethylene) and coke were also detected. The selectivity to cracking products decreased with increasing VOx site density ( Fig. S7 ). Cracking is catalyzed by acidic sites, and this observation may be explained by the higher Lewis acidity of isolated VOx sites compared to aggregated ones. Determination of coke selectivity from carbon balance gave a value of about 2% but differences between the catalysts cannot be properly identified due to the high error of such approach. Therefore, we determined additionally average coke selectivity over the whole DH experiment (about 25 h) from TPO of spent catalysts and the total amount of converted propane. There was no difference between the catalysts with low V loading (0.32.4 wt.%) that all showed coke selectivity of 1.15%  0.1%. For the two catalysts with highest V loading (4.16.3 wt.%) a higher coke selectivity of 1.79%  0.1% was determined. This may be a hint that more coke is formed over polymerized VOx and/or V2O5 with the latter being clearly present on 6.3V/MCM as shown by UVvis spectroscopy ( Fig. S2 ).
The influence of the kind of VOx species on product selectivity is more pronounced for isobutane DH. Since the support material MCM-41 is not active at all for conversion of isobutane and the reaction products isobutene and n-butenes [17] , we can study directly the influence of the kind of VOx species on selectivity. Isobutene selectivity over 0.3V/MCM was only 60% and lower than the selectivity of 7585% achieved over catalysts with higher V loading ( Fig. S8 ). Also among the latter catalysts, isobutene selectivity slightly increases with rising number of VOV bonds, while the selectivity to n-butenes and cracking products decreases. A possible reason for the influence of VOx structures on isobutene selectivity is discussed in the following section in detail. As already mentioned for propane DH higher cracking activity is due to higher acidity of these catalysts. The same is true for isomerization of isobutene to n-butenes that is also catalyzed by acidic sites [42] . Compared to propane DH coke selectivity is higher for isobutane DH and reaches about 3% over all catalysts. Since it is determined from carbon balance, its precision is not high and therefore, we calculated a mean value over all data points measured within 25 h on stream. Coke selectivity increases with V loading ( Fig. S9 ) from 1% for 0.3V/MCM over 2.5% for 1.4V/MCM and 1.7V/MCM to 34% for the higher loaded catalysts (2.46.3 wt.% V).
3.4. Dependence of DH activity, selectivity and stability on nature of VOx species
We start with the discussion on the effect of VOV bond number on apparent TOF of formation of propene or isobutene in DH of propane or isobutane ( Fig. 4 ). Since low-loaded catalysts possess mainly isolated VOx sites it may be concluded that these structures have higher intrinsic activity compared to polynuclear species. It is supposed that reduced VOx species represent the active site for alkane activation. They are created upon reduction of V5+ species under reaction conditions. TPR showed that at 550 C a higher fraction of isolated VOx species is reduced by H2 compared to polynuclear species ( Fig. S3 ). Therefore, we can assume that a higher fraction of VOx is reduced in low-loaded V catalysts under DH conditions thus resulting in a higher concentration of catalytically active sites. To fairly compare TOF of differently loaded catalysts, we performed additional experiments with the catalysts reduced in H2 (30 vol.% H2 in N2) at higher temperatures up to 625 C, where reduction of VOx is complete according to TPR, before starting alkane DH reaction at the same temperature. TOF values measured after reduction at 550 C are very similar to the ones obtained over catalysts heated up to 550 C in air (compare Fig. 4 and Fig. 6 ). This result shows that in situ reduction of the catalysts is as efficient as reduction in hydrogen. For both propane and isobutane DH, an increase in TOF with increasing reduction and reaction temperature was observed ( Fig. 6 ). More important, for all reduction temperatures TOF decreases with increasing number of VOV bonds. This is also the case for the highest reduction temperature where VOx species are almost fully reduced (compare Fig. S3 ). Therefore, isolated VOx species really are intrinsically more active than their oligomerized counterparts. Moreover, TPD of adsorbed ammonia showed that catalysts with low loading of V possess stronger Lewis acidic sites than their higher-loaded counterparts. Since alkane activation at Lewis-acidic V atom and neighbored basic O atom is assumed to be the rate determining step in DH, the higher reactivity of the low V loaded catalysts can be explained.
Download: Download high-res image (215KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 6. Influence of reduction temperature and mean number of VOV bonds on TOF of isobutene (left) and propene (right) formation. Reduction temperature:  525 C, 550 C, 575 C, 600 C, 625 C. Catalysts were tested for DH at the same temperature as reduction temperature.Besides activity, product selectivity is also influenced by the kind of VOx species. In particular, isolated sites are not selective for isobutane dehydrogenation to isobutene due to their high activity for cracking reactions and particularly isomerization of isobutene to n-butenes ( Fig. 7 ). This is related to the strong Lewis acidity of single VOx sites. Isobutene possesses basic properties due to its double bond and therefore it is adsorbed on acidic sites. On catalysts with stronger Lewis acid sites olefins have longer lifetime on the catalyst surface and thus a higher probability for consecutive reactions (cracking and structural isomerization) which results in lower selectivity to isobutene.
Download: Download high-res image (83KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 7. Influence of mean number of VOV bonds on selectivity to isobutene (triangles) and n-butenes (squares) at isobutane conversion of ca. 30%.
It is interesting that the least selective catalyst in isobutane DH  0.3V/MCM  showed the lowest deactivation rate. Despite the fact that this catalyst produced the highest amount of n-butenes that are assumed to be precursors for coke formation [17] , coke formation is lower compared to catalysts with higher V loading and lower selectivity to n-butenes ( Fig. S9 ). Following our argumentation in a previous paper [21] , this surprising fact can be explained when looking at the mechanism of coke formation. It is assumed that adsorbed olefins react with each other resulting in higher-molecular weight compounds that can be longer hydrocarbons or, after cyclization and dehydrogenation, aromatic compounds. In either case two olefins must be adsorbed close to each other to have the chance to react. This is, however, difficult on isolated VOx sites and, therefore, coke cannot be formed. Contrarily, catalysts with higher V loading possess VOx dimers or even aggregates of higher condensation. Here, it is possible that two olefins adsorb close to each other and react to coke precursors. Due to higher coke formation rate active sites of those catalysts are covered by coke resulting in their deactivation. Sintering or other structural changes of VOx species are assumed to be only a minor factor leading to deactivation because it was shown in a previous paper that VOx species on the surface of MCM-41 (4.3 wt.% V loading) did not agglomerate even after four cycles of propane dehydrogenation and subsequent regeneration of the catalyst with air at 550 C (total time on stream > 100 h) [19] . Sintering is even less probable for the low V loaded catalysts in the present study where VOx sites are not located in the direct neighborhood to each other.
4. Conclusions
Isolated VOx sites in VOx/MCM-41 catalysts were established to show higher TOF in comparison with their aggregated counterparts in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane. V4+ and V3+ species were identified as catalytically active sites. Their Lewis acidity increases with decreasing number of VOV bonds around a central V cation which is the origin of higher activity of isolated VOx sites. The latter are also resistant against deactivation by coke since simultaneous adsorption of two olefins and their consecutive reaction to coke precursors are difficult at one isolated VOx site. On the other hand this mechanism is highly probable on VOx dimers or higher polymerized species thus causing blockage of active sites by coke. Single VOx sites, however, reveal high activity for cracking and isomerization (in case of isobutane DH) reactions. This is explained by stronger acidity of Lewis sites created upon partial reduction of single V5+ species under reaction conditions compared to polynuclear VOx species.
In terms of catalyst development, an ideal catalyst for propane DH should possess isolated reduced VOx species because they possess highest TOF and show lowest deactivation rate. For isobutane DH these sites have too strong Lewis acidity leading to reduced isobutene selectivity due to structural isomerization. Here, isolated VOx sites with balanced Lewis acidity that is strong enough to activate C-H bond of alkanes but not too strong to catalyze cracking and skeletal isomerization are preferable.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 