<quotes>
[1] "Natural gas production from shale gas reservoirs is now proven to be feasible from numerous operations in various shale gas reservoirs in North America, but many challenges still remain in the full exploita- tion of these unconventional reservoirs."
[2] "Production from shale gas reservoirs requires stimulation by hydraulic fracturing due to the extremely low permeability of the reservoir rocks."
[3] "Although distinct in focus, these needs demonstrate the importance of the thorough charac- terization of shale gas reservoir (Table 4.1) as well as an understanding of how earth materials deform over various time scales and how it affect the current state of stress in the crust (Speight, 2014)."
[4] "There is an additional issue that must be resolved if shale gas is to be a major contributor to US energy resources (or to the energy plans of any country). The issue is the amenability of the gas to be included in current gas processing scenarios (Mokhatab et al.,2006; Speight, 2007)."
[5] "In addition, analysis of the gas composition of Devonian Shale wells indicates that the composition of produced gas shifts during the produc- tion history of the well (Schettler et al., 1989)."
[6] "In fact, the only way to explain observed fractionation with such classic mechan- isms is to assume that total flow has several sources within the wellbore,each with different characteristic compositions and decline curves."
[7] "The flow rate of an individual component of a gas mixture can be obtained by multiplying the total flow rate by the mole fraction of the individual component."
[8] "The second alternative is to assume that the gas composition changes observed at the wellbore reflect the changing composition of gas from at least some of the sources themselves."
[9] "Candidates for such differences in gas composition include the presence of adsorption, solution, and/or diffusion. The occurrence of adsorption is associated with the presence of certain minerals in the reservoir, such as clay."
[10] "Thus, as reservoir depletion occurs, the composi- tion of the gas produced may approach the composition of the gas orig- inally in the reservoir."
[11] "This process, while appearing to be ordered in such a description, is in fact subject to geological disorder and thence subject to differing methods of entrapment of the organic material, different methods or rates of decomposition, different rates of formation of the gas, and hence different composition of the shale gas."
[12] "However, because shale is composed primarily of tiny grains of clay minerals and quartz, the mineral components of mud, the composition of the shale reservoir can varyspecifically the rock properties such as porosity, permeability, capillary entry pressure, pore volume compress- ibility, pore size distribution, and flow path (collectively known as petrophysics) can vary considerably (Sone, 2012)."
[13] "The uncertainties of reservoir properties and fracture parameters (see Chapters 2 and 3) have a significant effect on shale gas properties and production, making the process of optimization of hydraulic frac- turing treatment design for economic gas production much more com- plex."
[14] "Characterizing these organic-rich shale formations can be challenging as these rocks vary quite significantly (Passey et al., 2010)."
[15] "Not surprisingly, gas-bearing shale formations are complex reser- voirs (with a porosity on the order of 4 to 6 porosity units and a total organic carbon content of $ 4% w/w), which represent significant vari- ety in reservoir characteristics (i.e., mineralogy, porosity, permeability,gas content, and pressure)."
[16] "In addition, the shale porosity changes at very different rates in different regions and formations."
[17] "Not surprisingly, and in accordance with the varying shale reservoir properties, it must be anticipated that there will be differences in shale gas composition and properties."
[18] "Produced shale gas observed to date has shown a broad variation in compositional makeup, with some having wider compo- nent ranges, a wider span of minimum and maximum heating values,and higher levels of water vapor and other substances than pipeline tariffs or purchase contracts may typically allow."
[19] "Indeed, because of these variations in gas composition, each shale gas formation can have unique processing requirements for the produced shale gas to be mar- ketable."
[20] "Although not highly sour in the usual sense of having high hydro- gen sulfide content, and with considerable variation from resource to resource and even from well to well within the same resource (due to extremely low permeability of the shale even after fracturing) (see Chapters 1 and 3), shale gas often contains varying amounts of hydro- gen sulfide with wide variability in the carbon dioxide content."
[21] "The Antrim Shale gas, for example, has high nitrogen concentra- tion, as does at least one well tested in the Barnett Shale formation."
[22] "New Albany Shale gas show high carbon dioxide concentrations while several wells in the Marcellus Gas Shale have tested up to 16% v/v."
[23] "In a traditional gas processing plant, the olamine of choice for hydrogen sulfide removal is N-methyl diethanolamine (MDEA) (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007) but whether or not this olamine will suffice to remove the hydrogen sulfide without removal of exces- sive amounts of carbon dioxide is another issue."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Shale gas production faces significant challenges, including the need for hydraulic fracturing due to the low permeability of reservoir rocks. The characterization of shale gas reservoirs and understanding of geological processes are crucial for exploitation. The composition of shale gas varies widely, influenced by factors such as organic matter content, porosity, permeability, and the presence of clay minerals. The gas composition can shift during production, affecting processing requirements. The presence of hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide in varying amounts poses challenges for gas processing. Specialized techniques, such as using N-methyl diethanolamine (MDEA) for hydrogen sulfide removal, are employed but require careful consideration to avoid excessive carbon dioxide removal.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
页岩气生产面临重大挑战，包括需要水力压裂以应对储层岩石的低渗透性。对页岩气储层的特征化和理解地质过程对于开采至关重要。页岩气的组成变化很大，受有机物质含量、孔隙度、渗透率以及粘土矿物的存在等因素的影响。在生产过程中，气体组成的变化会影响处理要求。氢硫化物和二氧化碳在不同数量的存在给气体处理带来了挑战。采用特殊技术，如使用N-甲基二乙醇胺（MDEA）去除氢硫化物，但需要仔细考虑以避免过量的二氧化碳去除。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
