<quotes>
[1] "Natural gas production from shale gas reservoirs is now proven to be feasible from numerous operations in various shale gas reservoirs in North America, but many challenges still remain in the full exploitation of these unconventional reservoirs."
[2] "Production from shale gas reservoirs requires stimulation by hydraulic fracturing due to the extremely low permeability of the reservoir rocks."
[3] "Although distinct in focus, these needs demonstrate the importance of the thorough characterization of shale gas reservoir (Table 4.1) as well as an understanding of how earth materials deform over various time scales and how it affect the current state of stress in the crust (Speight, 2014)."
[4] "There is an additional issue that must be resolved if shale gas is to be a major contributor to US energy resources (or to the energy plans of any country). The issue is the amenability of the gas to be included in current gas processing scenarios (Mokhatab et al.,2006; Speight, 2007)."
[5] "In addition, analysis of the gas composition of Devonian Shale wells indicates that the composition of produced gas shifts during the production history of the well (Schettler et al., 1989)."
[6] "The flow rate of an individual component of a gas mixture can be obtained by multiplying the total flow rate by the mole fraction of the individual component."
[7] "The occurrence of adsorption is associated with the presence of certain minerals in the reservoir, such as clay. Likewise, solution is associated with the presence of conventional petroleum or heavy oil or even gas condensate. The diffusion phenomenon is associated with diffusion through small pores such as those present in microporous reservoirs."
[8] "The liquid content of a gas is often measured in terms of the condensate ratio, which is expressed in terms of barrels of liquid per million cubic feet of gas (bbls/MMcf)."
[9] "Gas processing (gas treating, gas refining) usually involves the removal of (i) oil, (ii) water, (iii) elements such as sulfur, helium, and carbon dioxide, and (iv) natural gas liquids (see Chapter 6)."
[10] "The processes that have been developed to accomplish gas purification vary from a simple once-through wash operation to complex multi-step recycling systems (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007, 2014)."
[11] "In many cases, the process complexities arise because of the need for recovery of the materials used to remove the contaminants or even for the recovery of the contaminants in the original, or altered, form (Kohl and Riesenfeld, 1985; Mokhatab et al., 2006; Newman, 1985)."
[12] "Initially, natural gas receives a degree of cleaning at the wellhead. The extent of the cleaning depends upon the specification that the gas must meet to enter the pipeline system."
[13] "The compositions have been normalized to the reported compounds."
[14] "The wells showed initial production rates up to twenty or more million cubic feet of gas per day with estimates of 100330 ft3 of gas per ton of shale (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008)."
[15] "The Marcellus Shale gas has relatively little carbon dioxide and nitrogen. In addition, the gas is dry and does not require removal of natural gas liquids for pipeline transportation."
[16] "The Antrim Shale gas, for example, has high nitrogen concentration, as does at least one well tested in the Barnett Shale formation."
[17] "In other shale resources, such as Haynesville and the Eagleville field (Eagle Ford resource), a hydrogen sulfide content is known to be present."
[18] "In other gas shale resources, such as the Antrim resource and the New Albany resource, underlying Devonian formations may communicate with and contaminate the shale formations."
[19] "In fact, the effective bulk permeability in gas shale is typically much less than 0.1 mD, although exceptions exist where the rock is naturally fractured:for example,the well-fractured Antrim Shale in the Michigan Basin in the United States."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Shale gas refers to natural gas (mainly methane) found in fine-grained, organic-rich rocks (gas shale). The production of shale gas requires stimulation by hydraulic fracturing due to the extremely low permeability of the reservoir rocks. The natural gas is stored in shale in three different ways: adsorbed gas, free gas, and solution gas. The liquid content of a gas is often measured in terms of the condensate ratio, which is expressed in terms of barrels of liquid per million cubic feet of gas (bbls/MMcf). Gas processing usually involves the removal of oil, water, sulfur, helium, carbon dioxide, and natural gas liquids. The compositions of the shale gas vary widely depending on the specific shale formation. The Marcellus Shale gas has relatively little carbon dioxide and nitrogen, and does not require the removal of natural gas liquids for pipeline transportation. The Antrim Shale gas has high nitrogen concentration. In other shale resources, underlying Devonian formations may communicate with and contaminate the shale formations. The effective bulk permeability in gas shale is typically much less than 0.1 mD, although exceptions exist where the rock is naturally fractured.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
页岩气是指存在于细粒有机质岩（页岩气）中的天然气（主要是甲烷）。页岩气的生产需要通过水力压裂来刺激，因为储层岩石的渗透性极低。天然气在页岩中以三种不同的方式储存：吸附气、自由气和溶液气。气体中的液体含量通常用凝析油比来衡量，表示每百万立方英尺气体中有多少桶液体（bbls/MMcf）。气体处理通常涉及去除油、水、硫化氢、氦气、二氧化碳和天然气液体。页岩气的组成因特定的页岩层而异。马塞勒斯页岩气含有较少的二氧化碳和氮气，并不需要去除天然气液体即可进行管道运输。安特里姆页岩气具有较高的氮浓度。在其他页岩资源中，下伏的二叠纪层可能会与页岩层沟通并污染页岩层。页岩的有效总孔隙度通常小于0.1 mD，尽管存在天然裂缝的页岩层例外，例如美国密歇根盆地的安特里姆页岩层。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
