<quotes>
[1] "Though the books cover claims that the current edition, under the editorship of Nils Wiberg, is the first to be translated into English, this is, in fact, not true. The original Dutch edition was actually translated into English in 1902 by Hermon Cooper of Syracuse University and went through at least six editions by 1921."
[2] "The current translation weighs in at 1884 pages and is printed on a light-weight grade of paper that has some problems with print bleed through."
[3] "The coverage of concepts in Part A is basically at the level of an advanced freshman text."
[4] "Compared with the dog-and-pony show that now passes for the average freshman textbook with its multicolored pages, photos, sidebars, and supplementary CD's, it is refreshing to see this material presented using straightforward, unpretentious, black and white, line drawings and print."
[5] "The coverage of descriptive chemistry in Parts B, C, and D includes not only the latest research results but also basic information on naturally occurring mineral sources of the elements and on important industrial processes, such as iron smelting, the chemistry of glass, ceramics and cement-topics that have all but disappeared from most American textbooks."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The first edition of the textbook was published in 1898 by Arnold Frederick Holleman, and it was translated into English in 1902, not in the current edition under the editorship of Nils Wiberg.
2. The current translation of the book is quite extensive, containing 1884 pages, and it is printed on lightweight paper that may cause print bleed through.
3. The coverage of concepts in Part A of the book is aimed at advanced freshmen.
4. The presentation style of the book is straightforward, using black and white line drawings and print, which contrasts with the colorful and multimedia-heavy style of contemporary freshman textbooks.
5. The book provides comprehensive information on both the latest research findings and foundational knowledge about natural sources of elements and industrial processes related to materials science.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 这本书的第一版由Arnold Frederick Holleman在1898年出版，并在1902年被翻译成英语，而并非当前由Nils Wiberg编辑的版本。
2. 当前的翻译版本包含1884页内容，使用较轻的纸张印刷，可能会出现印刷渗透问题。
3. 第一部分A的内容覆盖概念是面向高级大一学生的水平。
4. 该书的呈现方式简洁明了，使用黑白线图和打印文本，与现代大一教科书的多彩、多媒体风格形成对比。
5. 该书不仅涵盖了最新的研究结果，还提供了关于元素自然来源和材料科学相关工业过程的基础信息。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
