<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "The catalytic properties of Al2O3-supported vanadia with a wide range of VOx surface density (1.434.2 V/nm2) and structure were examined for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane."
          [2] "Propene formation rates (per V atom) are approximately eight times higher than ethene formation rates at a given reaction temperature, but the apparent ODH activation energies (E1) are similar for the two reactants and relatively insensitive to vanadia surface density."
          [3] "The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly with vanadia surface density for propane, suggesting that isolated structures prevalent at low surface densities are slightly more selective for alkane dehydrogenation reactions."
          [4] "The ratio of k3/k1 decreases markedly with increasing reaction temperature for both ethane and propane ODH."
          [5] "The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions (<800 K)."
          [6] "The effects of oxide domain size and of support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acidbase properties of the VOx and support surfaces."
          [7] "The effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have been previously reported (718), with somewhat inconsistent results."
          [8] "The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis of integral (high conversion) rate and selectivity data, and the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions prevalent at the high temperatures and conversions of many previous studies, have contributed to the persistent controversies."
          [9] "Here, we report a detailed kinetic analysis of ethane ODH reactions on VOx/Al2O3 samples with a wide range of VOx surface densities (1.434 VOx/nm2) and contrast the results with those obtained using propane as the reactant."
          [10] "We have combined this analysis with detailed structural characterization of these catalysts in order to relate their local structure to the values of the rate constants,which characterize the function of these catalytic materials."
          [11] "In addition, we contrast the reaction rates of ethane and propane molecules with different CH bond energies and different adsorption energies of the respective alkenes."
          [12] "As surface densities increase, two-dimensional poly-vanadates appear (2.37.0 V/nm2), along with increasing amounts of V2O5 crystallites at surface densities above 7.0 V/nm2."
          [13] "Ethene and propene formation rates (per V atom) are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density and reach a maximum value at intermediate surface densities (8 V/nm2)."
          [14] "The effects of oxide domain size and of support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acidbase properties of the VOx and support surfaces."
          [15] "The local structure of supported VOx domains strongly influences ODH reaction rates and selectivity."
          [16] "High alkene yields at reasonable residence times require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1."
          [17] "The effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have been previously reported (718), with somewhat inconsistent results."
          [18] "The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis of integral (high conversion) rate and selectivity data, and the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions prevalent at the high temperatures and conversions of many previous studies, have contributed to the persistent controversies."
          [19] "The spectroscopic results presented in Figs. 1 and 2 suggest that distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures connected to the support via VOAl bonds are prevalent at low surface densities."
          [20] "As V surface densities increase, two-dimensional polyvanadates form via reactions leading to VOV bonds connecting neighboring VOx species."
          [21] "VOx species exceeding monolayer coverages react with polyvanadates structures to form three-dimensional structures that ultimately crystallize into bulk V2O5, with some evidence for residual monovanadate species."
          [22] "The rate per V atom increases with surface densities, even though V atoms become increasingly unavailable for catalysis as three-dimensional structures form."
          [23] "The constant areal rate obtained after completion of a polyvanadate monolayer suggests that the surface reactivity of VOx species becomes independent of domain size once the predominant structures involve VOV bonds."
          [24] "The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density (1.4 V/nm2) and containing predominately monovanadates shows the highest initial alkene selectivity for both ethane and propane ODH."
          [25] "The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane and increases with increasing vanadia surface density for propane (Fig. 8)."
          [26] "The ratio of k3/k1 increases with increasing vanadia surface density for both reactants (Fig. 10)."
          [27] "Smaller values of k3/k1 and k2/k1 lead to higher alkene selectivity at all reactant conversion levels."
          [28] "The ratio of k2/k1 is relatively independent of both reaction temperature and vanadia surface density for ethane ODH."
          [29] "The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of reaction temperature, but increases with increasing vanadia surface density for propane ODH."
          [30] "However, k3/k1 is generally higher for propane than for ethane ODH, indicating that the propene is more reactive relative to propane than ethene is to ethane."
          [31] "The activation energies for ethane and propane ODH, E1, and ethane and propane combustion, E2, are similar in magnitude at 115  20 kJ/mol and show weak dependence on vanadia surface density."
          [32] "The propene formation rate is approximately eight times larger than the ethene formation rate at 663 K, suggesting that that the stabilization energy for ethoxide species may be higher relative to isopropoxide in the activated state."
          [33] "The apparent activation energy for alkene combustion, E3, is 6090 kJ/mol and increases with vanadia surface density, leading to a decrease in E13 with increasing vanadia surface density."
          [34] "The trends in E3 and E13 appear to be caused by decreasingly exothermic alkene adsorption as vanadia surface density increases."
          [35] "Alkene selectivity generally increases with increasing reaction temperature and with decreasing vanadia surface density."
          [36] "Therefore, the highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates and operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with the avoidance of homogeneous reactions."
          [37] "As surface densities increase, two-dimensional poly-vanadates appear (2.37.0 V/nm2), along with increasing amounts of V2O5 crystallites at surface densities above 7.0 V/nm2."
          [38] "Ethene and propene formation rates (per V atom) are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density and reach a maximum value at intermediate surface densities (8 V/nm2)."
          [39] "The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions (<800 K)."
          [40] "The effects of oxide domain size and of support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acidbase properties of the VOx and support surfaces."
          [41] "The local structure of supported VOx domains strongly influences ODH reaction rates and selectivity."
          [42] "High alkene yields at reasonable residence times require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1."
          [43] "The effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have been previously reported (718), with somewhat inconsistent results."
          [44] "The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis of integral (high conversion) rate and selectivity data, and the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions prevalent at the high temperatures and conversions of many previous studies, have contributed to the persistent controversies."
          [45] "Here, we report a detailed kinetic analysis of ethane ODH reactions on VOx/Al2O3 samples with a wide range of VOx surface densities (1.434 VOx/nm2) and contrast the results with those obtained using propane as the reactant."
          [46] "We have combined this analysis with detailed structural characterization of these catalysts in order to relate their local structure to the values of the rate constants,which characterize the function of these catalytic materials."
          [47] "In addition, we contrast the reaction rates of ethane and propane molecules with different CH bond energies and different adsorption energies of the respective alkenes."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The catalytic properties of alumina-supported vanadia with a wide range of vanadia surface densities and structures were examined for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and propane. Propene formation rates are about eight times higher than ethene formation rates at a given reaction temperature, but the apparent activation energies for oxidative dehydrogenation are similar for both reactants and relatively insensitive to vanadia surface density. The ratio of the rate constant for alkane combustion to the rate constant for oxidative dehydrogenation is independent of surface density for ethane but increases slightly with vanadia surface density for propane. The ratio of the rate constant for alkene combustion to the rate constant for oxidative dehydrogenation decreases markedly with increasing reaction temperature for both ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions. The effects of oxide domain size and support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces. Previous studies on the effects of vanadia surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation have yielded inconsistent results. The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions prevalent at high temperatures and conversions in many previous studies, have contributed to the persistent controversies. A detailed kinetic analysis of ethane oxidative dehydrogenation reactions on vanadia/alumina samples with a wide range of vanadia surface densities was reported, contrasting the results with those obtained using propane as the reactant. This analysis was combined with detailed structural characterization of the catalysts to relate their local structure to the values of the rate constants that characterize the function of these catalytic materials. The reaction rates of ethane and propane molecules with different CH bond energies and different adsorption energies of the respective alkenes were also contrasted. As the surface density increases, two-dimensional poly-vanadates appear, along with increasing amounts of V2O5 crystallites. Ethene and propene formation rates per vanadium atom are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density, reaching a maximum at intermediate surface densities. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions. The effects of oxide domain size and support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acid-base properties of the vanadia and support surfaces. The local structure of supported vanadia domains strongly influences oxidative dehydrogenation reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. The effects of vanadia surface density and structure on ethane and propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates and selectivities have been previously reported with inconsistent results. The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis, as well as the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions at high temperatures and conversions in many previous studies, have contributed to ongoing controversies. The spectroscopic results suggest that distorted tetrahedral monovanadate structures connected to the support via VOAl bonds are prevalent at low surface densities. As V surface densities increase, two-dimensional polyvanadates form via reactions leading to VOV bonds connecting neighboring VOx species. VOx species exceeding monolayer coverages react with polyvanadates structures to form three-dimensional structures that ultimately crystallize into bulk V2O5, with some evidence for residual monovanadate species. The rate per V atom increases with surface densities, even though V atoms become increasingly unavailable for catalysis as three-dimensional structures form. The constant areal rate obtained after completion of a polyvanadate monolayer suggests that the surface reactivity of VOx species becomes independent of domain size once the predominant structures involve VOV bonds. The sample with the lowest vanadia surface density and containing predominately monovanadates shows the highest initial alkene selectivity for both ethane and propane ODH. The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of surface density for ethane and increases with increasing vanadia surface density for propane. The ratio of k3/k1 increases with increasing vanadia surface density for both reactants. Smaller values of k3/k1 and k2/k1 lead to higher alkene selectivity at all reactant conversion levels. The ratio of k2/k1 is relatively independent of both reaction temperature and vanadia surface density for ethane ODH. The ratio of k2/k1 is independent of reaction temperature, but increases with increasing vanadia surface density for propane ODH. However, k3/k1 is generally higher for propane than for ethane ODH, indicating that the propene is more reactive relative to propane than ethene is to ethane. The activation energies for ethane and propane ODH, E1, and ethane and propane combustion, E2, are similar in magnitude at 115  20 kJ/mol and show weak dependence on vanadia surface density. The propene formation rate is approximately eight times larger than the ethene formation rate at 663 K, suggesting that that the stabilization energy for ethoxide species may be higher relative to isopropoxide in the activated state. The apparent activation energy for alkene combustion, E3, is 6090 kJ/mol and increases with vanadia surface density, leading to a decrease in E13 with increasing vanadia surface density. The trends in E3 and E13 appear to be caused by decreasingly exothermic alkene adsorption as vanadia surface density increases. Alkene selectivity generally increases with increasing reaction temperature and with decreasing vanadia surface density. Therefore, the highest olefin yields are obtained on catalysts containing isolated monovanadates and operated at the highest possible reaction temperature consistent with the avoidance of homogeneous reactions. As surface densities increase, two-dimensional poly-vanadates appear, along with increasing amounts of V2O5 crystallites. Ethene and propene formation rates (per V atom) are strongly influenced by vanadia surface density and reach a maximum value at intermediate surface densities. The highest yield of alkene is obtained for catalysts containing predominantly isolated monovanadate species and operated at high temperatures that avoid homogeneous reactions. The effects of oxide domain size and of support on rates and selectivity have been attributed to the acidbase properties of the VOx and support surfaces. The local structure of supported VOx domains strongly influences ODH reaction rates and selectivity. High alkene yields at reasonable residence times require high values of k1 and low values of k2/k1 and k3/k1. The effects of VOx surface density and structure on rates and selectivities for ethane and propane ODH reactions have been previously reported, with somewhat inconsistent results. The lack of detailed structural characterization and rigorous kinetic analysis of integral (high conversion) rate and selectivity data, and the temperature gradients and possible homogeneous reactions prevalent at the high temperatures and conversions of many previous studies, have contributed to the persistent controversies. A detailed kinetic analysis of ethane ODH reactions on VOx/Al2O3 samples with a wide range of VOx surface densities was reported and contrasted with those obtained using propane as the reactant. This analysis was combined with detailed structural characterization of these catalysts in order to relate their local structure to the values of the rate constants. In addition, the reaction rates of ethane and propane molecules with different CH bond energies and different adsorption energies of the respective alkenes were contrasted.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          研究了具有广泛范氧化物表面密度和结构的氧化铝支撑的范氧化物的催化性能，用于乙烷和丙烷的氧化脱氢。在给定的反应温度下，丙烯形成速率大约是乙烯形成速率的八倍，但氧化脱氢的表观活化能对于两种反应物是相似的，对范氧化物表面密度相对不敏感。乙烷的烷烃燃烧速率常数与氧化脱氢速率常数之比与表面密度无关，但丙烷的该比值随范氧化物表面密度略有增加。对于乙烷和丙烷氧化脱氢，烷烃燃烧速率常数与氧化脱氢速率常数之比随反应温度显著下降。在避免均相反应的高温下操作，主要含有孤立的单范酸盐物种的催化剂可以获得最高的烯烃产率。氧化物域尺寸和支撑对速率和选择性的影响归因于范氧化物和支撑表面的酸碱性质。关于范氧化物表面密度和结构对乙烷和丙烷氧化脱氢速率和选择性影响的先前研究结果不一致。许多先前研究中缺乏详细的结构表征和严格的动力学分析，以及高温和高转化率下常见的温度梯度和可能的均相反应，导致了持续的争议。报告了对具有广泛范氧化物表面密度的范氧化物/氧化铝样品的乙烷氧化脱氢反应的详细动力学分析，对比了使用丙烷作为反应物得到的结果。该分析与催化剂的详细结构表征相结合，以将它们的局部结构与表征这些催化材料功能的速率常数值相关联。还对比了具有不同CH键能和各自烯烃不同吸附能的乙烷和丙烷分子的反应速率。随着表面密度的增加，二维多范酸盐出现，伴随着V2O5晶体的增加。每单位钒原子的乙烯和丙烯形成速率受范氧化物表面密度的强烈影响，在中间表面密度时达到最大值。在主要包含孤立的单范酸盐物种并在避免均相反应的高温下操作的催化剂中，可以获得最高的烯烃产量。氧化物域尺寸和支撑对速率和选择性的影响归因于范氧化物和支撑表面的酸碱性质。支撑的范氧化物域的局部结构强烈影响氧化脱氢反应速率和选择性。在合理的停留时间内获得高烯烃产量需要k1的高值和k2/k1和k3/k1的低值。关于范氧化物表面密度和结构对乙烷和丙烷氧化脱氢速率和选择性的影响，以前的研究报告了不一致的结果。许多以前的研究中缺乏详细的结构表征和严格的动力学分析，以及高温和转化率下的温度梯度和可能的均相反应，导致了持续的争议。光谱学结果表明，通过VOAl键与支撑连接的扭曲四面体单钒酸盐结构在低表面密度下普遍存在。随着V表面密度的增加，通过导致VOx物种之间VOV键的反应形成二维多钒酸盐。超过单层覆盖的VOx物种与多钒酸盐结构反应，形成最终结晶成块体V2O5的三维结构，有证据表明存在残留的单钒酸盐物种。V原子的速率随表面密度的增加而增加，即使V原子随着三维结构的形成而变得越来越不可用于催化。在完成多钒酸盐单层后获得的恒定面积速率表明，一旦主要结构涉及VOV键，VOx物种的表面反应性就变得独立于域尺寸。表面钒密度最低且主要含有单钒酸盐的样品对乙烷和丙烷ODH都显示出最高的初始烯烃选择性。k2/k1的比率对于乙烷是独立于表面密度的，而对于丙烷，它随着钒表面密度的增加而增加。k3/k1的比率对于两种反应物都随着钒表面密度的增加而增加。k3/k1和k2/k1的较小值导致所有反应物转化水平的烯烃选择性更高。k2/k1的比率对于乙烷ODH在反应温度和钒表面密度方面都是相对独立的。k2/k1的比率独立于反应温度，但随着丙烷ODH的钒表面密度的增加而增加。然而，k3/k1通常对于丙烷比对于乙烷ODH更高，表明丙烯相对于丙烷比乙烯相对于乙烷更具有反应性。乙烷和丙烷ODH以及乙烷和丙烷燃烧的活化能E1和E2的大小相似，在115  20 kJ/mol左右，对钒表面密度的依赖性较弱。在663 K时，丙烯形成速率大约是乙烯形成速率的八倍，这表明在活化状态下，乙氧基物种的稳定化能可能相对于异丙氧基更高。烯烃燃烧的表观活化能E3为6090 kJ/mol，并且随着钒表面密度的增加而增加，导致E13随着钒表面密度的增加而减少。E3和E13的趋势似乎是由于随着钒表面密度的增加，烯烃吸附变得越来越放热引起的。烯烃选择性通常随着反应温度的升高和钒表面密度的降低而增加。因此，在避免均相反应的最高可能反应温度下操作，主要含有孤立单钒酸盐的催化剂可以获得最高的烯烃产量。随着表面密度的增加，二维多范酸盐出现，伴随着V2O5晶体的增加。每V原子的乙烯和丙烯生成速率受范氧化物表面密度的强烈影响，在中间表面密度时达到最大值。在主要包含孤立的单范酸盐物种并在避免均相反应的高温下操作的催化剂中，可以获得最高的烯烃产量。氧化物域尺寸和支撑对速率和选择性的影响归因于范氧化物和支撑表面的酸碱性质。支撑的范氧化物域的局部结构强烈影响ODH反应速率和选择性。在合理的停留时间内获得高烯烃产量需要k1的高值和k2/k1和k3/k1的低值。关于范氧化物表面密度和结构对乙烷和丙烷氧化脱氢速率和选择性的影响，以前的报道有些不一致。由于缺乏详细的结构表征和对积分(高转化率)速率和选择性数据的严格动力学分析，以及在许多先前研究的高温和高转化率下普遍存在的温度梯度和可能的均相反应，导致了持续的争议。报告了对具有广泛VOx表面密度(1.434 VOx/nm2)的VOx/Al2O3样品的乙烷ODH反应的详细动力学分析，与使用丙烷作为反应物的结果进行了对比。这种分析与这些催化剂的详细结构表征相结合，以将它们的局部结构与表征这些催化材料功能的速率常数的值联系起来。此外，对比了具有不同CH键能和不同吸附能的乙烷和丙烷分子的反应速率。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
