<quotes>
[1] "Dehydrogenation intermediates of ethylene glycol on the Pt(111) surface. In relation to gas-phase ethylene glycol and hydrogen adsorbed on a separate slab, the HOCCO intermediate is found to be the most stable of the C2HxO2 species."
[2] "Structural and energetic patterns centering around the CHxOHy branches of the adsorbates emerge that allow for the quantification of thermochemical properties based on group additive methods."
[3] "Dehydrogenation intermediates of ethanol and isopropyl alcohol are used to derive oxygenate group contributions, which can be used to predict the enthalpy, entropy, and specific heat of adsorbed oxygenates on platinum."
[4] "Second-order corrections to this method including ring strain, weak nonbound group interactions with the metal, and hydrogen bonding are quantified to improve the predictive ability of this method."
[5] "Finally, the heats of adsorption of C2HxO2 species on Pt(111) are used, along with atomic binding energies, to predict the binding energies of these species on Ni(111) and NiPtPt(111) bimetallic surfaces by extending previously derived linear scaling relations."
[6] "Furthermore, corrections are added for the first time for ring strain and weak oxygen binding modes."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The HOCCO intermediate is the most thermodynamically stable of the C2HxO2 species on the Pt(111) surface, compared to gas-phase ethylene glycol and hydrogen adsorbed on a separate slab.

2. The structural and energetic patterns that emerge from the adsorption of ethylene glycol dehydrogenation intermediates on the Pt(111) surface allow for the quantification of their thermochemical properties using group additive methods.

3. Oxygenate group contributions are derived from the dehydrogenation intermediates of ethanol and isopropyl alcohol, enabling predictions of the enthalpy, entropy, and specific heat of adsorbed oxygenates on platinum.

4. The predictive method is enhanced by accounting for second-order corrections such as ring strain, weak non-bound group interactions with the metal, and hydrogen bonding.

5. The heats of adsorption of C2HxO2 species on Pt(111) are utilized to predict their binding energies on Ni(111) and NiPtPt(111) bimetallic surfaces through the application of linear scaling relations.

6. The predictive model is improved by incorporating corrections for ring strain and weak oxygen-metal binding modes.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在Pt(111)表面上，HOCCO中间体是C2HxO2物种中最稳定的，与气态乙二醇和单独吸附的氢相比。

2. 从乙二醇脱氢中间体在Pt(111)表面的吸附中出现的结构和能量模式允许使用群体增益方法量化它们的热化学性质。

3. 通过乙醇和异丙醇脱氢中间体的衍生氧基团贡献，可以预测铂上吸附氧基化合物的焓、熵和特定热量。

4. 预测方法通过考虑环应力、非绑定金属键的弱相互作用以及氢键等第二级修正来增强其预测能力。

5. 利用Pt(111)表面的吸附C2HxO2物种的热吸附量，结合原子结合能，通过扩展先前提出的线性缩放关系来预测这些物种在Ni(111)和NiPtPt(111)双金属表面的结合能。

6. 预测模型通过引入环应力和弱氧金属结合模式的修正得到了改进。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
