<quotes>
<p>The application of kinetic Monte Carlo simulation, in tandem with first-principle DFT calculations to generate the input kinetic data, provides a unique tool to screen in silico catalytic surfaces and relate systematic changes in the surface structure, composition, and atomic assemblies to changes in the catalytic activity, via changes in the rates of the underlying reaction elementary steps. This methodology may be quite useful in combinatorial or high-throughput efforts to guide catalyst development.</p>
<p>Simulations of the steady-state decomposition of NO in excess molecular oxygen on PtAu(100) alloy surfaces show that increasing Au from 0 to about 44 atomic percent leads to an increase in the turnover frequency for N2 formation. Dioxygen no longer inhibits the rate of N2 formation on the most active alloy surface. This is due to a decrease in the oxygen binding energy and thus a decrease in oxygen coverage under reaction conditions. This results in an increase in the number of vacant sites available for NO adsorption. The maximum in turnover frequency occurs at 44% Au for the specific atomic assembly of Pt and Au into a special Pt +-site. This specific arrangement of atoms removes the 4-fold hollow Pt sites that are preferred for both the dissociative adsorption of NO and O2, but maintains neighboring Pt bridge sites for NO adsorption and NO coupling. The central Pt atom in the + ensemble contains only nearest-neighbor Pt atoms and can thus uniquely take advantage of the fact that the repulsive interactions between two oxygen atoms are significantly higher than those between two NO molecules, thus allowing for the formation of NO dimers while blocking oxygen poisoning. At Au contents equal to or greater than 50%, the turnover frequency of N2 formation drops due to decreases in the NO binding energy and NO surface coverage. This also coincides with the disappearance of Pt bridge sites that are energetically preferred sites for NO as well as atomic oxygen.</p>
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study demonstrates that increasing the atomic percentage of Au from 0 to approximately 44% leads to an increase in the turnover frequency for N2 formation during the decomposition of NO in excess molecular oxygen on PtAu(100) alloy surfaces. This increase in N2 formation is attributed to a decrease in the oxygen binding energy and, consequently, a reduction in oxygen coverage under reaction conditions. This results in more vacant sites available for NO adsorption. The maximum turnover frequency is observed at 44% Au, which allows for a specific atomic assembly of Pt and Au into a Pt+-site. This unique arrangement eliminates the 4-fold hollow Pt sites that are favored for the dissociative adsorption of NO and O2, while maintaining Pt bridge sites for NO adsorption and NO coupling. The central Pt atom in the + ensemble exclusively interacts with nearest-neighbor Pt atoms, taking advantage of the higher repulsive interactions between two oxygen atoms compared to two NO molecules, thereby facilitating NO dimer formation and preventing oxygen poisoning. When the Au content exceeds 50%, the turnover frequency for N2 formation decreases due to reductions in the NO binding energy and NO surface coverage, which correlates with the disappearance of energetically preferred Pt bridge sites for both NO and atomic oxygen.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究结果表明，将Au的原子百分比从0增加到大约44%，在PtAu(100)合金表面的NO过量分子氧分解过程中，N2形成的速度频率会增加。这种N2形成的增加归因于氧结合能的降低和氧覆盖度的减少。这导致更多的空位可用以吸附NO。在44%的Au含量下，观察到了最大速度频率，这是由于Pt和Au以Pt+-结构形成特定的原子组装。这种独特的排列消除了被NO和O2亲合力青睐的4-面空Pt位点，同时保留了用于NO吸附和NO耦合的Pt桥位点。在+复合体中心的Pt原子仅与相邻的Pt原子相互作用，利用两个氧原子之间的更高排斥力与两个NO分子相比，从而促进NO二聚体的形成并阻止氧气中毒。当Au含量超过50%时，由于NO结合能和NO表面覆盖率的减少，N2形成的速度频率下降，这与Pt桥位点的消失相吻合，这些位点对NO和原子氧都是能量上优选的。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
