<quotes>

[1] "In 2019, Gao and colleagues developed rod-type porous Al2O3 with various acidity levels to load the Cr2O3 species.83 Compared with the CrOx-based catalysts using commercial Al2O3, the as-synthesized Cr/Al2O3 catalyst showed a better stability and coke resistance, which should be assigned to the low acidity in porous Al2O3."
[2] "Hu et al. used H2 pre-reduction to enhance the interaction between the Cr species and Al2O3 supports, for improving the stability and anti-coking properties of the catalyst in the PDH reaction.84"
[3] "Lang et al. found that the mesoporous Al2O3 supported highly distributed Cr components showed enhanced activity and stability in catalytic PDH.85"
[4] "Sokolov and co-workers exploited a supported VOx-based catalyst material with exceptional activity and robust stability during long term reactionregeneration evaluations.97"
[5] "The results further revealed that the large VOx nanoparticles and highly polymeric VOx species easily led to coke deposition and the corresponding rapid deactivation."
[6] "Zhao et al. realized the considerable relationship between the content of V-OH and catalytic stability, demonstrating that the V-OH species help resist the coking reaction and further improve the stability of the catalyst,98 whereas, the excessive hydroxyl group may block the exposed V3+ active sites on the surface of catalysts, resulting in unfavorable activity."
[7] "The corresponding V components in a fresh VOx-based catalyst presented different forms such as V5+, V4+, V3+, monovanadate, polyvanadate and crystalline V2O5."
[8] "The loading content of V greatly affects the valence state and polymerization degree, in which the active sites can include the polymeric V3+ and V4+ as well as isolated VOx species (monovanadate)."
[9] "Sokolov et al. designed a series of supports with different acidity levels to support single layer VOx components for catalyzing the PDH reaction.101 The results confirmed that the tendency to form coke increased with the surface acidity of the catalyst."
[10] "Shan and colleagues explored catalysts with similar surface densities of V species on variable Al2O3 crystals.102 The contents of surface OH on Al2O3 was proven to affect the polymeric degree of VOx species and the interaction between VOx and the Al2O3 support."
[11] "Hu et al. synthesized a microporous VOx-SiO2 catalyst with exceptional catalytic performance revealing that the low polymeric VOx species is considered as the major active center during the PDH catalysis.103"
[12] "Wu et al. prepared a virus-like structure of a porous SiO2 nanosphere supported VOx catalyst by the solgel method.104 It is found that adequate VOx loading content and high dispersion degree of the VOx species of the resulting catalyst are critical to achieving excellent catalytic performance in PDH."
[13] "Xie and colleagues synthesized a catalyst by loading VOx on ZrO2, demonstrating that the SMSI between VOx and ZrO2 is beneficial for the formation of low coordinated V species with respect to the favorable CH activation.105"
[14] "Gu et al. used PH3 to modify the VOx/Al2O3 catalyst with P doping, achieving improved catalytic properties including optimized surface acidity, separation of polymeric VOx components, and SMSI.107"
[15] "Wu and colleagues also synthesized a Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 catalyst.108 Their results indicated that well-dispersed 2D V2O5 nanoparticles can be formed with the introduction of suitable Mg, thus elevating the coke resistance ability and long-term stability."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.In 2019, Gao and colleagues developed rod-type porous Al2O3 with various acidity levels to load the Cr2O3 species. Compared with the CrOx-based catalysts using commercial Al2O3, the as-synthesized Cr/Al2O3 catalyst showed a better stability and coke resistance, which should be assigned to the low acidity in porous Al2O3. Hu et al. used H2 pre-reduction to enhance the interaction between the Cr species and Al2O3 supports, for improving the stability and anti-coking properties of the catalyst in the PDH reaction. Lang et al. found that the mesoporous Al2O3 supported highly distributed Cr components showed enhanced activity and stability in catalytic PDH. Sokolov and co-workers exploited a supported VOx-based catalyst material with exceptional activity and robust stability during long term reactionregeneration evaluations. The results further revealed that the large VOx nanoparticles and highly polymeric VOx species easily led to coke deposition and the corresponding rapid deactivation. Zhao et al. realized the considerable relationship between the content of V-OH and catalytic stability, demonstrating that the V-OH species help resist the coking reaction and further improve the stability of the catalyst, whereas, the excessive hydroxyl group may block the exposed V3+ active sites on the surface of catalysts, resulting in unfavorable activity. The corresponding V components in a fresh VOx-based catalyst presented different forms such as V5+, V4+, V3+, monovanadate, polyvanadate and crystalline V2O5. The loading content of V greatly affects the valence state and polymerization degree, in which the active sites can include the polymeric V3+ and V4+ as well as isolated VOx species (monovanadate). Sokolov et al. designed a series of supports with different acidity levels to support single layer VOx components for catalyzing the PDH reaction. The results confirmed that the tendency to form coke increased with the surface acidity of the catalyst. Shan and colleagues explored catalysts with similar surface densities of V species on variable Al2O3 crystals. The contents of surface OH on Al2O3 was proven to affect the polymeric degree of VOx species and the interaction between VOx and the Al2O3 support. Hu et al. synthesized a microporous VOx-SiO2 catalyst with exceptional catalytic performance revealing that the low polymeric VOx species is considered as the major active center during the PDH catalysis. Wu et al. prepared a virus-like structure of a porous SiO2 nanosphere supported VOx catalyst by the solgel method. It is found that adequate VOx loading content and high dispersion degree of the VOx species of the resulting catalyst are critical to achieving excellent catalytic performance in PDH. Xie and colleagues synthesized a catalyst by loading VOx on ZrO2, demonstrating that the SMSI between VOx and ZrO2 is beneficial for the formation of low coordinated V species with respect to the favorable CH activation. Gu et al. used PH3 to modify the VOx/Al2O3 catalyst with P doping, achieving improved catalytic properties including optimized surface acidity, separation of polymeric VOx components, and SMSI. Wu and colleagues also synthesized a Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 catalyst. Their results indicated that well-dispersed 2D V2O5 nanoparticles can be formed with the introduction of suitable Mg, thus elevating the coke resistance ability and long-term stability.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.2019年，高和同事开发了具有不同酸度水平的杆状多孔Al2O3，以加载Cr2O3物种。与使用商业Al2O3的CrOx基催化剂相比，合成的Cr/Al2O3催化剂显示出更好的稳定性和抗焦炭性，这应归因于多孔Al2O3中的低酸度。胡等人使用H2预还原来增强Cr物种和Al2O3载体之间的相互作用，以提高催化剂在PDH反应中的稳定性和抗焦炭性。Lang等人发现，高度分散的Cr组分在介孔Al2O3上表现出增强的活性和稳定性。Sokolov和同事开发了一种具有优异活性和长期反应再生评价中稳健稳定性的VOx基催化剂材料。进一步的结果表明，大VOx纳米颗粒和高聚VOx物种容易导致焦炭沉积和相应的快速失活。Zhao等人意识到V-OH含量与催化稳定性之间的显著关系，表明V-OH物种有助于抵抗焦炭反应，进一步提高催化剂的稳定性，然而，过量的羟基群可能会阻止催化剂表面暴露的V3+活性位点，导致不利的活性。新鲜VOx基催化剂中相应的V组分以V5+，V4+，V3+，单钒酸盐，多钒酸盐和结晶V2O5的形式存在。V的负载含量对价态和聚合度有很大影响，其中活性位点可以包括聚合V3+和V4+以及孤立的VOx物种（单钒酸盐）。Sokolov等人设计了一系列具有不同酸度水平的载体，以支持单层VOx组分，用于催化PDH反应。结果证实，催化剂的表面酸度增加导致形成焦炭的倾向增加。Shan和同事探索了具有相似表面密度的V物种在可变Al2O3晶体上的催化剂。证明Al2O3上的表面OH含量会影响VOx物种的聚合度和VOx与Al2O3载体之间的相互作用。胡等人合成了一种具有优异催化性能的微孔VOx-SiO2催化剂，揭示了低聚VOx物种被认为是PDH催化期间的主要活性中心。Wu等人通过溶胶凝胶方法制备了一种病毒状结构的多孔SiO2纳米球支撑的VOx催化剂。发现适当VOx负载含量和高分散度的VOx物种是实现PDH中优异催化性能的关键。Xie等人通过在ZrO2上负载VOx合成了催化剂，证明了VOx和ZrO2之间的SMSI有利于形成低配位V物种，有利于CH活化。Gu等人使用PH3通过P掺杂修改了VOx/Al2O3催化剂，实现了包括优化的表面酸度，聚合VOx组分的分离和SMSI在内的改进的催化性能。Wu和同事还合成了Mg改性的VOx/Al2O3催化剂。他们的结果表明，通过引入合适的Mg可以形成分散良好的2D V2O5纳米颗粒，从而提高焦炭抗性和长期稳定性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
