<quotes>

[1] "It was found that the addition of hydrogen to the feed increases the catalyst performance and decreases the formation of coke deposits, as was revealed by 10 thermogravimetrical analysis."
[2] "Operando Raman spectroscopy showed that hydrogen altered the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation."
[3] "By analysing the related intensity, band position and 15 bandwidth of the different Raman features, it was determined that smaller graphite crystallites, which have less defects, are formed when the partial pressure of hydrogen in the feed was increased."
[4] "The ability of hydrogen to suppress coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is already known and is explained by competitive adsorption on the catalyst surface, effectively reducing the surface coverage of adsorbed carbon species."
[5] "The addition of H2 increases catalyst stability,conversion and selectivity on the Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst, with a propane concentration of 75% providing the optimal performance."
[6] "The addition of H2 to the feed therefore either increases the amount of defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases the size of the graphitic crystallites."
[7] "The increase in propane dehydrogenation conversion observed with increasing H2 concentration is related to the decreased deposition 55 of coke, which was detected by operando Raman spectroscopy."
[8] "Initially these sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of the supported Pt nanoparticles may inhibit these sites permanently."
[9] "Finally,the experiments with propane concentrations of 25 and 50% show a strong increase in selectivity for each consecutive cycle."
[10] "For these specific 65 experiments, less coke of a more graphitic nature is detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, suggesting a link between the presence of relatively disordered coke deposits and side reactions,such as cracking."
[11] "We propose that in the presence of high concentrations of H2,more graphitic coke is formed that mainly covers the catalyst support. In the absence of H2, more disordered coke is formed,that is also present on the supported Pt nanoparticles. H2 assists in keeping the surface of the Pt free of these disordered coke 100 species."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affects coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms in several ways. It increases catalyst performance and decreases the formation of coke deposits, as revealed by thermogravimetrical analysis. Hydrogen alters the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation, leading to the formation of smaller graphite crystallites with less defects when the partial pressure of hydrogen in the feed is increased. Hydrogen suppresses coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption on the catalyst surface, effectively reducing the surface coverage of adsorbed carbon species. The addition of hydrogen increases catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on the Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst, with a propane concentration of 75% providing the optimal performance. The addition of hydrogen to the feed either increases the amount of defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases the size of the graphitic crystallites. The increase in propane dehydrogenation conversion observed with increasing hydrogen concentration is related to the decreased deposition of coke, which was detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, these sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of the supported Pt nanoparticles may inhibit these sites permanently. The experiments with propane concentrations of 25 and 50% show a strong increase in selectivity for each consecutive cycle. For these specific experiments, less coke of a more graphitic nature is detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, suggesting a link between the presence of relatively disordered coke deposits and side reactions, such as cracking. In the presence of high concentrations of hydrogen, more graphitic coke is formed that mainly covers the catalyst support. In the absence of hydrogen, more disordered coke is formed, that is also present on the supported Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in keeping the surface of the Pt free of these disordered coke species. These effects of hydrogen cofeeding have implications for the overall process efficiency and performance, as they can lead to improved catalyst stability, higher conversion and selectivity, and reduced coke formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在丙烷脱氢(PDH)过程中，氢气共进料对焦炭形成、催化剂稳定性和反应机制有多种影响。它提高了催化剂性能，减少了焦炭沉积物的形成，这在热重分析中得到了揭示。氢气改变了丙烷脱氢过程中形成的焦炭沉积物的性质，导致当进料中氢气的分压增加时，形成更小、缺陷更少的石墨结晶体。氢气通过在催化剂表面的竞争性吸附，有效地减少了吸附碳物种的表面覆盖率，从而抑制了Pt基催化剂上的焦炭形成。氢气的添加增加了Pt-Sn/Al2O3催化剂的稳定性、转化率和选择性，其中75%的丙烷浓度提供了最佳性能。氢气的添加要么增加了石墨晶格中的缺陷数量，要么减少了石墨晶格的尺寸。随着氢气浓度的增加，观察到的丙烷脱氢转化率的增加与通过原位拉曼光谱检测到的焦炭沉积量的减少有关。最初，这些位点被焦炭抑制，但支撑的Pt纳米颗粒的烧结可能会永久抑制这些位点。丙烷浓度为25%和50%的实验显示，每个连续周期的选择性都有显著提高。对于这些特定的实验，通过原位拉曼光谱检测到的更石墨性质的焦炭较少，这表明相对无序的焦炭沉积物与裂解等副反应之间存在联系。在高浓度氢气的存在下，形成了更多的石墨焦炭，主要覆盖催化剂载体。在没有氢气的情况下，形成了更多的无序焦炭，也存在于支撑的Pt纳米颗粒上。氢气有助于保持Pt表面没有这些无序的焦炭物种。氢气共进料的这些影响对整体过程效率和性能有影响，因为它们可以提高催化剂稳定性，提高转化率和选择性，减少焦炭形成。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
