<quotes>

[1] "The positive effect of hydrogen on the catalyst performance is comparable to the addition of Sn, a promoter element which increases both the propane conversion and propene selectivity."
[2] "Operando Raman spectroscopy showed that hydrogen altered the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation."
[3] "By analysing the related intensity, band position and 15 bandwidth of the different Raman features, it was determined that smaller graphite crystallites, which have less defects, are formed when the partial pressure of hydrogen in the feed was increased."
[4] "The addition of hydrogen to the feed therefore either increases the amount of defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases the size of the graphitic crystallites."
[5] "The increase in propane dehydrogenation conversion observed with increasing H2 concentration is related to the decreased deposition 55 of coke, which was detected by operando Raman spectroscopy."
[6] "Initially these sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of the supported Pt nanoparticles may inhibit these sites permanently."
[7] "Finally,the experiments with propane concentrations of 25 and 50% show a strong increase in selectivity for each consecutive cycle."
[8] "For these specific 65 experiments, less coke of a more graphitic nature is detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, suggesting a link between the presence of relatively disordered coke deposits and side reactions,such as cracking."
[9] "We propose that in the presence of high concentrations of H2,more graphitic coke is formed that mainly covers the catalyst support."
[10] "In the absence of H2, more disordered coke is formed,that is also present on the supported Pt nanoparticles."
[11] "H2 assists in keeping the surface of the Pt free of these disordered coke 100 species."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has a positive effect on catalyst performance, comparable to the addition of Sn, a promoter element that increases both propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hydrogen alters the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation, leading to the formation of smaller graphite crystallites with fewer defects when the partial pressure of hydrogen in the feed is increased. The addition of hydrogen to the feed either increases the amount of defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases the size of the graphitic crystallites. The increase in propane dehydrogenation conversion observed with increasing hydrogen concentration is related to the decreased deposition of coke, which was detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, highly active sites present on the catalyst induce cracking and hydrogenolysis in the presence of hydrogen. These sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of the supported Pt nanoparticles may inhibit these sites permanently. The experiments with propane concentrations of 25 and 50% show a strong increase in selectivity for each consecutive cycle. For these specific experiments, less coke of a more graphitic nature is detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, suggesting a link between the presence of relatively disordered coke deposits and side reactions, such as cracking. In the presence of high concentrations of hydrogen, more graphitic coke is formed that mainly covers the catalyst support. In the absence of hydrogen, more disordered coke is formed, that is also present on the supported Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in keeping the surface of the Pt free of these disordered coke species. The implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance are that hydrogen cofeeding can increase the conversion and selectivity of the PDH process, leading to a more stable catalyst and improved process efficiency.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在丙烷脱氢(PDH)过程中，氢气共进料对催化剂性能有积极影响，与添加Sn(一种促进元素，可同时提高丙烷转化率和丙烯选择性)的效果相当。氢气改变了丙烷脱氢过程中形成的焦炭沉积物的性质，导致当进料中氢气的分压增加时，形成更小、缺陷更少的石墨结晶体。向进料中添加氢气要么增加石墨晶格中的缺陷数量，要么减小石墨晶格的尺寸。随着氢气浓度的增加，观察到的丙烷脱氢转化率的增加与通过原位拉曼光谱检测到的焦炭沉积量的减少有关。最初，催化剂上存在的高活性位点在氢气存在下诱导裂解和氢解。这些位点最初被焦炭抑制，但支撑的Pt纳米颗粒的烧结可能会永久抑制这些位点。丙烷浓度为25%和50%的实验显示，每个连续循环的选择性都有显著提高。对于这些特定的实验，通过原位拉曼光谱检测到的焦炭较少，性质更石墨化，这表明相对无序的焦炭沉积物与裂解等副反应之间存在联系。在高浓度氢气的存在下，形成更多的石墨化焦炭，主要覆盖催化剂载体。在没有氢气的情况下，形成更多的无序焦炭，也存在于支撑的Pt纳米颗粒上。氢气有助于保持Pt表面免受这些无序焦炭物种的污染。这些效应对整体过程效率和性能的影响是，氢气共进料可以提高PDH过程的转化率和选择性，导致更稳定的催化剂和提高的过程效率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
