I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Adsorption of gold on stoichiometric and reduced rutile TiO2(110) surfaces Amrendra Vijay, Greg Mills, and Horia Metiu
Citation: J. Chem. Phys. 118, 6536 (2003); doi: 10.1063/1.1557919 View online: http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1557919 View Table of Contents: http://jcp.aip.org/resource/1/JCPSA6/v118/i14 Published by the American Institute of Physics.
Additional information on J. Chem. Phys.
Journal Homepage: http://jcp.aip.org/ Journal Information: http://jcp.aip.org/about/about_the_journal Top downloads: http://jcp.aip.org/features/most_downloaded Information for Authors: http://jcp.aip.org/authors Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions Adsorption of gold on stoichiometric and reduced rutile TiO2 110 surfaces Amrendra Vijay and Greg Mills Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 93106 Horia Metiua) Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 93106 Received 4 October 2002; accepted 15 January 2003!
We present a density functional study of reduced and stoichiometric rutile TiO2 110! surfaces, and of binding of gold monomers and dimers to them. On the stoichiometric TiO2 surface, a Au atom binds to either a five-coordinated Ti atom on the basal plane, or atop a bridging oxygen atom. The two sites have nearly the same binding energy, suggesting diffusion of Au across unreduced regions of TiO2 110! will be fast. The reduction of the rutile surface, by removal of bridging oxygen atoms,causes a charge redistribution in the system, which extends far from the vacancy site. A Au atom binds strongly to the reduced surfaces: the greater the degree of reduction the stronger the binding.
On all reduced surfaces, the preferred binding sites are the vacant bridging oxygen sites. Less stable is the binding to a nearby five-coordinated Ti atom. The binding of Au2 on the reduced surfaces follows a similar pattern. Specifically, if two adjacent vacant sites are available, the optimal structure involves the dimer dissociating to occupy them. Several other stable binding situations for gold dimers on the reduced surfaces are discussed in the text. The binding of Au to the reduced TiO2 surface involves a substantial charge transfer to gold. We argue that this will affect the chemistry in which Au will engage.  2003 American Institute of Physics. @DOI: 10.1063/1.1557919#
I. INTRODUCTION
Small Au clusters supported on TiO2 or other oxides have interesting catalytic properties. Because of this, a great deal of study has been devoted to these systems.154 The catalytic chemistry of small Au clusters has been reviewed recently by Haruta15,18 and Bond.55 In this article, we present results of density functional theory DFT! calculations of the electronic structure of TiO2 stoichiometric, and with oxygen vacancies at the surface! and of the binding of Au and Au2 to stoichiometric and de- fective TiO2 surfaces.
The clean TiO2 surface has already been the subject of extensive theoretical1,2,10,2836,4453 and experi- mental39,1127,37,3943,51,54 work. Here we study the stoichio- metric surface, and surfaces having a coverage of oxygen vacancies of 0.5 and 1.0 monolayers ML!. We have also performed a few calculations on a surface on which one oxy- gen out of six is missing. In what follows we give only those results that add to what is already known.
Our calculations on clean TiO2 differ from the previous ones mainly because we were able to use a larger supercell.
This allows us to get some understanding of the interactions between vacancies and to study how localized are the elec- trons left behind when a neutral oxygen atom is removed to create a vacancy!. Contrary to some of the previous works,we find that these electrons are not localized tightly around the vacancy site; nevertheless, they are available for transfer to a Au atom binding to the defective surface.
As in previous work3135 we find that the surface energy oscillates with the number of layers used in the slab. Even though we have used 15 layers in some of the calculations,we have not managed to converge surface energy with re- spect to slab thickness. This causes a serious difficulty in studying the Aun /TiO2 system for large values of n, since a large number of Ti and O atoms have to be included in the calculation. Here we show that not only the surface energy of TiO2 but also the binding energy of Au oscillates with the number of layers in the TiO2 slab. This is surprising, since previous studies of oxideadsorbate interactions, even those involving charge transfer, have found rather fast convergence with respect to the amount of substrate represented; this in- cludes MgO56,57 and SiO2 .58 For Al2O3 the convergence is slower, due to large substrate relaxations.59 The properties of Au on rutile TiO2 110! have been studied theoretically by several groups. Thien-Nga and Paxton47 have used the fully polarized, linear muffin-tin orbitals method to study the adsorption of 0.5 ML of Au on an unrelaxed, stoichiometric TiO2 110! surface. They ob- tained a binding energy of 8.5 eV per Au atom. This ex- tremely large value is in disagreement with other calculations and with expectations based on studying metal bonds with other oxide surfaces. Yang, Wu, and Goodman10 looked at the adsorption of 1 ML of Au atoms on a stoichiometric TiO2 surface and found three binding configurations with energies ranging between 1.0 and 1.49 eV, per Au atom. Giordano et al.29 and Lopez and Nrskov53 have recently studied the interaction of gold atoms with the stoichiometric rutile a!Electronic mail: metiu@chem.ucsb.edu
JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS
VOLUME 118, NUMBER 14
8 APRIL 2003
6536 0021-9606/2003/118(14)/6536/16/$20.00 2003 American Institute of Physics Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions TiO2 110! surface, and find a binding energy of order 1.0 eV. Vittadini and Selloni52 have recently reported the results of a DFT study of small gold clusters on stoichiometric and defective anatase TiO2 101! surface. We note also a study by Sanchez et al.36 of CO oxidation on Au8 clusters sup- ported on the MgO 110! surface.
The energetics of Au on TiO2 110! have been indirectly measured by Campbell et al. In one experiment,27 they mea- sured coarsening as a function of temperature. Using a ki- netic model to fit the data, they found the monomer adsorp- tion energy, less the diffusion barrier, to be 0.43 eV. In another study, of island growth at different temperatures,25 one model consistent with the data had a monomer diffusion barrier of 0.07 eV. This value should be considered only a suggestion, since the barrier was not measured directly, and the true kinetics are unknown. Both experiments used nearly stoichiometric TiO2 surfaces. Adding these values gives a guess for the adsorption energy for a Au monomer of around
0.5 eV.
Our study of Au and Au2 binding to TiO2 focuses on finding the binding sites, on elucidating the role of oxygen vacancies, and on determining the nature of the AuTi bond.
We find that Au binds relatively weakly 0.6 eV! to a sto- ichiometric TiO2 surface, either on top of a bridging oxygen or by binding to a five-coordinated 5c-! Ti atom and tilting toward a bridging oxygen. This value agrees well with the very indirect! result of 0.5 eV suggested by the experiments by Campbell et al. see above!.
Whenever an oxygen vacancy is available, Au and Au2 bind most strongly to the vacancy site; Au, which is a rather electronegative atom,60 prefers to take the place of the miss- ing oxygen. Crudely speaking, pulling an oxygen atom out of the surface, to make a vacancy, releases some electron den- sity, that was tied up by the O22 ion. Some of this electron density is transferred to the Au atom, when Au binds to the vacancy site. This implies that the support plays an active role in catalytic activity, since by transferring charge to the gold it modifies its chemical properties.
II. THE METHOD OF COMPUTATION
Our DFT calculations use a plane wave basis set and ultrasoft pseudopotentials, as implemented in the VASP pro- gram written by Kresse, Fu rthmuller, and Hafner.6164 The pseudopotentials were generated according to the scheme outlined by Rappe et al.65 We used the generalized gradient approximation of Perdew and Wang.66 The energy minimiza- tion was carried out using the recursive minimization
RMM-DIIS!
technique67 and the Pulay quasi-Newton scheme.68 A 396 eV cutoff was chosen for storage of the KohnSham eigenstates, and a grid of 803803180 points was used for storage of the charge density. Tests were made to check convergence with respect to the cutoff and the grid.
To aid convergence, a finite temperature approach was adopted where the Fermi function was expanded in a set of orthonormal Gaussian functions according to the method of Methfessel and Paxton.69 Because the unit cell is large, the Brillouin zone was sampled by using two points in the irre- ducible wedge. A vacuum layer of .15 Å was used, and we tested that this width is sufficient. The spurious electrostatic interaction, across the vacuum layer, between periodic repli- cas of the slab was removed by using the method of Neuge- bauer and Scheffler,70 as implemented in VASP.
Most results reported in the following involve an energy cutoff of 396 eV. We made some tests with a cutoff of 500 eV. This changes the binding energy of Au by only 0.01 eV.
We have also used an oxygen pseudopotential with a lower cutoff of 270 eV, in some calculations. We found that this alters the binding energy of Au by 0.01 eV.
Spin-polarized DFT calculations give the same results as ordinary DFT for the total energy of the stoichiometric sur- face. However, reduced surfaces have unpaired electrons and therefore spin polarization is important: ordinary DFT gives Au binding energies that are between 0.1 and 0.3 eV smaller than the results of the spin-polarized calculations. For this reason, we report only results that take spin into account.
The pseudopotentials used are such that ten electrons are treated explicitly for each Ti atom, six for oxygen and eleven for gold. For Au we use a scalar, relativistic, ultrasoft pseudopotential. Unfortunately, we are unable to take into account spinorbit coupling, and it is not clear whether this effect can be safely ignored.
In all calculations we have fixed the atoms in the bottom three layers in the bulk positions; all other atoms were al- lowed to relax and reach positions corresponding to the mini- mum energy.
III. RUTILE TiO2 110
A. The structure of the stoichiometric surface
The TiO2 110! surface has been extensively used in surface science studies. This is the most stable face of rutile38 and it has been assumed that it appears most frequently on the surface of the TiO2 support used in catalysis.
A side view of the structure of the 110! surface is shown in Fig. 1. The first atomic layer at the top of Fig. 1! contains the bridging oxygen atoms labeled 1!. We assume that this is the most stable surface layer, since it is created by cutting the smallest number of TiO bonds. The second layer, the basal plane, contains an equal number of Ti and
FIG. 1. A six layer slab of rutile TiO2 110!. The atoms are labeled as
follows: 1 for bridging oxygen atoms at the surface, 2 for oxygen atoms in the basal plane, 3 for five-coordinated Ti atoms, and 4 for six-coordinated Ti on the surface basal plane. Labels 5 and 6 refer to staggered oxygen layers beneath the surface. Labels 7 and 8 refer to oxygen and Ti atoms in the next layer down. 6537
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Adsorption of gold on TiO2 (110) Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions O atoms; the O atoms in this layer are labeled 2. The five- coordinated Ti atoms called 5c-Ti! are labeled 3 and the six-coordinated Tis 6c-Ti! are labeled 4. The third layer contains the oxygen atoms labeled 5 in Fig. 1. These three layers have the stoichiometry TiO2 and so do the next three layers, etc. The number of layers used in slab calculations must therefore be a multiple of three. The fourth layer con- tains oxygen atoms labeled 6 in Fig. 1! bound to the Ti atoms labeled 3. Since these oxygen atoms are directly bound to a Ti atom located on the surface, they must be included in a calculation of surface properties. However, un- less the number of layers in the TiO2 slab is a multiple of 3,the slab has the wrong stoichiometry. Therefore, the mini- mum number of layers that can be used for describing the surface is six. We find that some of the properties of the slab alternate with the number of layers, and for this reason we have performed calculations with slabs having 9, 12, and 15 layers.
In the present calculations we use the surface unit cells shown in Fig. 2. When the 231 surface unit cell is used, the system has 36, 48, and 60 atoms for 9-, 12-, and 15-layer slabs, respectively. To test convergence with respect to the size of the surface unit cell, we have done some calculations with a 332 cell Fig. 2!. Such calculations take a long time and we have used the 332 surface only with the 9-layer slab; this system has 108 atoms.
Before performing slab calculations, we optimized the bulk geometry and found the following crystallographic pa- rameters experimental values71 in parentheses!: cell length a, 4.61 4.59! Å, the internal parameter u, 0.304 0.305!, and the a/c ratio, 1.554 1.553!. In the slab calculations, the at- oms in the bottom three layers are held fixed in the position they would have in the bulk. An exception is made when we calculate the surface energy.
The atoms in the stoichiometric surface are significantly displaced from the bulk position. Furthermore, these dis- placements oscillate with the number of layers used to rep- resent the TiO2 slab. The displacements we found to agree with those found by Gillan et al.33,35 and we do not report them here. Gillan et al.35 have reported the displacements as a function of the slab thickness, and find them to not con- verge until about 18 layers are used.
B. The energy of the stoichiometric surface
To determine the surface energy, we have calculated the energy of a slab in which every atom including those in the bottom layers! was allowed to move to a position for which the energy has a minimum. This slab has two surfaces, one at the top and one at the bottom. From the energy of the slab we subtract the energy of an equal number of atoms in the bulk and divide the result by four to obtain the surface energy per surface unit cell. The results for this quantity are 0.93, 0.49,
0.71 eV for 9-, 12-, and 15-layer systems with a 231 surface
unit cell see Table I!.
As observed in previous work,33 the surface energy os- cillates with the thickness of the slab. The origin of this effect is not clear to us. One possibility is a particle in a box effect: the orbitals have to adjust to the slab thickness.
The other is a long-range, electrostatic interaction between the layers. As will become apparent later, other but not all! quantities, besides surface energy, depend on slab thickness.
C. The structures of the reduced surfaces
Like many other oxides, the TiO2 surface can have oxygen-atom vacancies in the surface layer. Here we have studied only the vacancies created by removal of the bridg- ing oxygen atoms, which have the weakest binding energy to the surface.
FIG. 2. Top view of the TiO2 surface seen from the 110! direction, showing
a 332 surface unit cell. The broken line indicates a 231 surface unit cell.
Atom labels are the same as in Fig. 1. For example, 1 refers to the bridging oxygen atoms, whereas 3 and 4 refer to the 5c-Ti and 6c-Ti atoms, respec- tively.
TABLE I. Properties of stoichiometric and reduced TiO2 110! surfaces.
Surface energy is per surface unit cell created see the text!. The reduction energy is the energy to create the specified surface 0.5 or 1.0 ML! from the stoichiometric surface, and gas-phase O2 molecules, from the stoichiometric surface; this energy is per vacancy created, i.e., per 1/2 O2(g).
Energy Vacancy concentration
0.0 ML
0.5 ML
1.0 ML
Surface 231, 9-layer
0.93 eV
231, 12-layer
0.49 eV
231, 15-layer
0.71 eV
Reduction 231, 9-layer
3.54 eV
4.10 eV
231, 12-layer
4.53 eV
4.62 eV
231, 15-layer
4.13 eV
4.52 eV
332, 9-layer
3.56 eV,a 3.13 eVb
3.92 eV
aMissing-row vacancy distribution. bJ-shaped vacancy distribution. 6538
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Vijay, Mills, and Metiu Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions To create reduced surfaces i.e., with missing oxygen atoms!, we can remove one or both oxygen atoms in the 231 unit cell. The concentrations of the oxygen vacancies produced in this way are 0.5 and 1.0 ML, respectively. The 332 unit cell has six bridging oxygen atoms and we have either removed 3 or 6 of them, to achieve a vacancy concen- tration of 0.5 or 1.0 ML, respectively. We note that creating a surface with a vacancy concentration of 0.5 ML in a cal- culation using a 231 or 332 surface unit cell leads to dif- ferent vacancy configurations. For a 231 surface unit cell,we remove the O atom in position 1a in Fig. 2 and all its periodic images, with the unit cell shown by dashed lines!;thus, every other O atom, in each row of bridging oxygen atoms, is removed. When we use a 332 surface unit cell we create two different configurations. In the first, the missing- row configuration, we remove atoms 1a, 1b, and 1c see Fig. 2!; a whole row of bridging oxygen atoms is stripped off and the next row is left intact, the next is stripped, etc. The second configuration, which we call J-shaped, is created by removing atoms 1a, 1b, and 1d see Fig. 2!. There is another physically distinct option, an L-shape, with vacan- cies at sites 1b, 1c, and 1d; but initial tests on this system indicated its properties are not very different from the J-shaped system, and we have not pursued this option.! We emphasize that all three configurations lead to the same va- cancy coverage. If there is no interaction between vacancies,then the energy of formation of these configurations will be the same.
The removal of oxygen atoms causes substantial changes in the positions of the remaining atoms. On the partially reduced surface, with a 231 surface unit cell, upon remov- ing one bridging oxygen atom the four O atoms in the basal plane labeled 2 in Fig. 2! move up i.e., toward the vacuum! by 0.21 Å relative to their positions on the stoichiometric surface!. Complete reduction 1.0 ML of vacancies! breaks symmetry and raises two of these four atoms another 0.07 Å,and the other two by 0.18 Å. On partial reduction, the two 5c-Ti labeled 3 in Fig. 2!, go up by 0.17 and 0.10 Å. Upon complete reduction they become symmetric again and lie
0.21 Å above the position they have in the stoichiometric
surface. The two 6c-Ti atoms labeled 4 in Fig. 2! go down by 0.11 Å upon partial reduction. Complete reduction breaks symmetry and moves them down further by 0.05 and 0.27 Å.
Similar atomic relaxations have been observed in the studies of Lindan et al.,33 who used only a 131 surface unit cell, and so had only one bridging oxygen in the unit cell.
These distortions caused by surface reduction indicate subtle electronic effects. The descent of the 6c-Ti atoms is understandable: because they lost an O neighbor above, these atoms move down, closer to their remaining neighbors. We have no simple explanation for the movement of the 5c-Ti atoms.
D. The energies of the reduced surfaces
The energy of making a surface with 0.5 ML of vacan- cies and gas-phase O2, in various configurations: We have calculated the energies required to remove oxygen to create gas-phase O2 molecules and various defective TiO2 surfaces see Table I!. These energies depend on the kind of defective surface created. When we work with a 231 surface unit cell and create a surface with 0.5 ML of vacancies, we calculate DE15(Ev1EO2Es)11/2(EO222EO). DE1 is the energy to create a surface with 0.5 ML of vacancies and gas-phase O2 , per created vacancy or, equivalently, per 1/2 O2 mol- ecule!. Here Es is the energy per 231 surface unit cell! of the stoichiometric slab, Ev is the energy per 231 surface unit cell! of the slab with 0.5 ML vacancies, EO is the energy of a gas-phase oxygen atom and EO2 is the energy of an oxygen molecule in the gas phase. The term (Ev1EO2Es) gives the energy of removing one oxygen atom from each 231 unit cell, per oxygen atom or, equivalently, per 231 unit cell!. The term 1/2(EO222EO) is the energy of forma- tion of an O2 molecule from atoms, per oxygen atom. Note that when this oxygen molecule is created, the surface va- cancies are in position 1a see Fig. 2!, in each 231 unit cell.
The results for DE1 are see Table I!: 3.54, 4.53, and 4.13 eV, for a 9-, 12-, and 15-layer system, respectively. In all cases the stoichiometric surface has lower energy than the defective one plus 1/2 O2(g). Spin polarization has a negli- gible effect less than 0.04 eV! on DE1 .
Here, we made O2 as a product, and so the reduction energies depend on the ability of the calculation to describe O2 correctly. Calculated data for O2 are experimental values72 in parentheses!: bond length, 1.238 1.207! Å; dis- sociation energy, 5.87 5.12! eV. These calculations appear to be accurate enough for the present purposes: The apparent reduction energy depends more on describing electronic states of the substrate properly than those of O2 .
To get some indication of the role of vacancy distribu- tion on the surface, when one forms a surface with 0.5 ML vacancy concentration, we have performed calculations with a 332 unit cell. The energy of formation of 1/2 O2 and one vacancy, in a 9-layer slab with a 332 surface unit cell, is DE25@(Ev13EO2Es)13/2(EO222EO)#/3. The energies in this formula have been defined in the previous paragraph.
To create a surface with a coverage of 0.5 ML, in a calcula- tion with a 332 unit cell, we remove three-oxygen atoms per surface unit cell and this requires the energy (Ev13EO 2Es). These three atoms can be combined to form 3/2 O2(g) molecules. The energy required is (Ev13EO2Es) 13/2(EO222EO); division by three gives the energy per 1/2 O2 created, leaving behind a certain vacancy configuration.
The results for DE2 are: DE2,r53.56 eV with vacancies in a missing-row! or DE2,J53.13 eV vacancies in a J-shaped distribution!. The energies DE1 , DE2,r , and DE2,J should differ from each other, even though they lead to the same vacancy coverage, because they represent energies to form different vacancy configurations. Strangely, DE2,r and DE1 are practically equal, even though the resulting vacancy con- figurations are rather different. However, it takes much more energy, per vacancy, to make the missing-row configura- tion or the 231 half-reduced surface, than the J-shaped va- cancy configuration.
We must caution, however, that these differences may be subject to the same strong dependence on the depth of the slab as the binding energy for a single Au atom to reduced TiO2 , where the effect on DE1 is as large as 1 eV see 6539
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Adsorption of gold on TiO2 (110) Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions above!. We have not tested this for Au adsorption to a 332 surface. Both DE2,r and DE2,J probably oscillate with the same phase as DE1 , and so the difference in reduction energy to make different vacancy arrangements should be more stable than any of the individual DE values. Anyway,the conclusion remains that, since different vacancy configu- rations have different energies, the vacancies must be inter- acting strongly.
The energy to make an O2 molecule and a completely reduced surface: We have calculated the energy DE35(Ev 1EO22Es)/2, which is the energy to form a surface with 1.0 ML of vacancies i.e., we strip all bridging oxygen atoms from the surface to form gas-phase oxygen molecules!, given per 1/2 O2 . The values of DE3 , for calculations with a 231 surface unit cell, are 4.10, 4.62, and 4.52 eV, for 9-,12-, and 15-layer systems see Table I!. These values are very large and indicate that a complete stripping of oxygen by thermal desorption is difficult to achieve.
The energy to completely reduce a 332 surface with a 9-layer slab is 3.92 eV per vacancy created see Table I!.
This is smaller by 0.18 eV than 4.10 eV, the value for the 231 surface. We would ordinarily expect these two values to be the same, since the initial and final states are identical.
We can think of two reasons for this discrepancy: 1! In the fully reduced system, the atoms near the surface undergo a reconstruction and lose symmetry. We described this in Sec. III C for the 231 system and it also occurs in the 332 system. This distortion ought to be periodic with a certain period, Lx and Ly . All calculations in which the sides of the surface unit cell are multiples of Lx and Ly will give the same energy for stripping all the bridging oxygen atoms per O2 molecule formed!. Calculations in which this condi- tion is not fulfilled will force the system to have an erroneous periodicity relative to this distortion, and so increase the en- ergy for stripping the oxygen. This apparently occurs in the present case, since the reduction energyfor stripping all oxygensis smaller for a system with a 332 surface unit cell 3.92 eV! than for 231 4.10 eV!. It is likely that the true reconstruction of reduced TiO2 110! has not been con- tained even by the 332 calculation. 2! This discrepancy may also arise because in changing the surface unit cell we change the manner in which we sample the Brillouin zone.
To eliminate all discrepancy would require very labori- ous calculations, using bigger and bigger unit cells. Since the discrepancy is small compared to the expected errors in DFT,we did not perform such calculations here.
E. Vacancyvacancy interaction
Since we can calculate the energy of forming surfaces having a half a monolayer of vacancies, with a variety of vacancy configurations, we attempt to get some indication of the magnitude of the interactions between vacancies. This information could be used in a Monte Carlo program to de- termine the distribution of vacancies at different temperature and vacancy concentrations.
To make the problem as simple as possible, we assume that the vacancy interaction can be described by a lattice Hamiltonian, in which the energy is pairwise additive and depends on the distance between vacancies. There is no guar- antee that such a decomposition is possible. However, even if it fails quantitatively, it gives a qualitative indication of the interaction energy.
We therefore define three possible types of vacancy in- teractions: Eadj, the interaction energy between two vacan- cies adjacent along a bridging-oxygen row 1a and 1b in Fig. 2!; Ediag, the interaction energy between two diagonally neighboring vacancies 1b and 1d in Fig. 2!; and Eacross, the interaction energy between two vacancies on adjacent rows 1c and 1d in Fig. 2!. Finally, we also need the energy, Evac,of making an isolated vacancy. In calculating these energies,we assume that each O taken off makes 1/2 O2(g). The Hamiltonian is then E5Es1nvacEvac1nadjEadj1ndiagEdiag1nacrossEacross. 1!
Here, Es is the energy of the stoichiometric system. nadj is the number of adjacent vacancy pairs, and so on.
Figure 3 illustrates how these neighbors are counted in a 332 surface unit cell. Figure 3a! shows the different types of neighbors and Figs. 3b!3f! show the specific reduced systems we have studied. In Figs. 3b!3e!, the actual va- cancy interactions of each type are drawn in, with the num- ber of each e.g., nadj) indicated. The periodicity of the sur- face must be taken into account when making this count; for example in Fig. 3c! the missing-row vacancy arrangement!,nadj53: there are two such interactions inside the box and two half-interactions with the vacancies in the adjacent unit cell. The latter interactions are halved because one-half in- teraction ought to be assigned to each cell.
We determine the interaction energies as follows: 1! We find Evac by calculating the energy E1/6, of a system with a 332 unit cell, in which we removed one oxygen atom, to make 1/6 ML of vacancies @see Fig. 3b!#. The energy to form this vacancy is E1[E1/611/2EO22Es . In this system,
FIG. 3. A schematic description of vacancy distributions in a 332 surface
unit cell. There are two bridging-oxygen rows, and each row has three sites,either occupied or vacant. O indicates a bridging oxygen, V, a bridging oxygen vacancy. a! The stoichiometric surface, showing the definition of adjacent, diagonal, and across neighbors. b! A surface with 1/6 ML of vacancies. c!e! 0.5 ML of vacancies arranged in a missing row, a J-shape, and an L-shape, respectively. f! The fully reduced surface, 1.0 ML of vacancies. b!f! nadj , ndiag , and nacross count the number of vacancy neighbors of the types adjacent, diagonal, and across. 6540
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Vijay, Mills, and Metiu Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions nvac51, nadj5ndiag5nacross50, and so Eq. 1! gives E1 5Evac @assuming that no vacancy interactions exist beyond those accounted for in Eq. 1!#. 2! Next, we calculated the energy Er of a system with a 332 unit cell and a missing row of vacancies @i.e., the vacancies are at 1a, 1b, and 1c in Fig. 2, and see Fig. 3c!#. Then we define E2[Er13/2EO2 2Es . In this system, nvac53, nadj53, and ndiag5nacross50.Hence E253Evac13Eadj. Since we know Evac, we can cal- culate Eadj. 3! Similarly, we calculate the energy E3[EJ 13/2EO22Es where EJ is the energy of a surface with a J-shaped vacancy configuration @1a, 1b, and 1d in Fig. 2, and see Fig. 3d!#. In this case nvac53, nadj51, ndiag54, and nacross50, and we can calculate Ediag from E353Evac1Eadj 14Ediag. 4! Finally, a similar calculation for a surface with an L-shaped vacancy configuration @vacancies at 1b, 1c, and 1d in Fig. 2, and Fig. 3e!#, for which nvac53, nadj51,ndiag52, nacross52, allows us to calculate Eacross.These calculations give: Evac51.78 eV, Eadj51.78 eV, Ediag50.56 eV, Eacross50.58 eV.We can test this Hamiltonian by performing DFT calcu- lations of the energy of certain vacancy configurations @e.g.,the completely reduced surface, Fig. 3f!# and evaluate that energy using Eq. 1!. We find that Eq. 1! does not work well: it gives an error of about 1 eV per vacancy. This is much too large an error for using Eq. 1! for any quantitative studies. Furthermore, the slow convergence of these energies with the number of layers represented would not save this lattice Hamiltonian: It is difficult to imagine that adding lay- ers below would cause the vacancies to no longer interact.We have found here that this attempt, to decompose vacancy interactions into a form involving only nearest neighbors,does not work; the lack of convergence with depth does not alter this conclusion.However, this decomposition points out two important things: 1! The vacancies repel each other and the largest repulsion, by far, is that between adjacent vacancies. 2! The decomposition fails quantitatively because the disturbance caused by creating a vacancy is delocalized: it extends fur- ther than the neighboring atoms. This delocalization is one of the main findings of the present work and affects all sys- tems we study.
F. The change of electron density upon vacancy
formation We have performed a number of calculations to help us understand the changes taking place in the electronic struc- ture of the surface, when a vacancy is formed. We calculate first the electron density rv f of a fictitious system, which we call Sv f , having the same geometry as the stoichiometric sur- face, except that one bridging oxygen atom is missing. To this density we add the electron density rO of an oxygen atom in the gas phase, placed at the location the missing oxygen atom had in the stoichiometric surface. Then, we evaluate Drv5rs2rv f 2rO , where rs is the electron density of the stoichiometric surface. This quantity has the following chemical significance. Imagine that we attempt to form the stoichiometric surface by bringing an oxygen atom to fill the oxygen vacancy in the system Sv f . While doing this, we keep the charge densities of Sv f and of the oxygen atom fro- zen. The atoms in the resulting system are in the same posi- tions as in the stoichiometric surface, but have different elec- tron densities. Next, we relax our grip on the electron density and allow it to change into that of the stoichiometric surface;the quantity Drv gives us the electron density change, when this relaxation takes place. It is the change in electron density caused by bond formation between the oxygen atom and the vacancy in the surface of Sv f . We are aware that this is not a complete description of this bonding, since Sv f has a different geometry than the partially reduced surface. However, Drv gives an indication of the electron transfer during bonding.
The density difference Drv is positive in those regions of space where oxygen bonding increases the electron den- sity and negative where bonding removes electron density.
We have calculated Drv for a 9-layer slab, with a 231 surface unit cell. The positive values of Drv are shown in Fig. 4a!. We see that the bonding of oxygen at the va- cancy site pulls electrons into the region occupied by the incoming oxygen. Figure 4b! shows that the region that is depleted of electrons, when the oxygen binds, is fairly delo- calized over the slab. We suspect that this is one of the rea-
FIG. 4. Electron density changes upon binding of one O atom to a defective
TiO2 110! surface. a! The increase of electron density when one O atom binds at the vacancy site of a TiO2 110! surface with 0.5 ML vacancy coverage, calculated with a 231 surface unit cell. b! Decrease of electron density in the above process. c! The gain of electron density when an oxygen atom binds at a vacant site of a TiO2 110! surface having 1.0 ML of oxygen vacancies. d! The loss of electron density in the process described at c!. The contour in all graphs corresponds to 60.040 electrons/Å3. Light gray atoms are Ti and dark gray are O. The atom labels are the same as in Fig. 1. The 6c-Ti atoms label 4! are nearly concealed by basal-plane O atoms; the electron density here sits on them, as indicated by arrows, and not on the O atoms. Note that the slab is viewed from a different direction than in Fig. 1. 6541
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Adsorption of gold on TiO2 (110) Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions sons why the oxygen binding energy depends on the number of layers in the slab.
These results are consistent with the naive picture that the bridging oxygen is a negative ion. When the neutral oxy- gen is brought in, and allowed to bond at the vacancy site,electrons move to form the oxygen ion; the increase of elec- tron density at the location of the oxygen atom @Fig. 4a!# is due to ion formation upon bonding. We cannot determine whether this electron transfer forms an O22 ion, due to the notorious difficulties in assigning reliably a definite electron charge to an atom in a molecule or a solid. While a variety of schemes for doing this exist, we feel that they are all arbi- trary and inconclusive.
It has been speculated38 that the two Ti atoms to which the bridging oxygens are bonded are Ti41. When the oxygen atom is removed, the two Ti atoms are reduced to Ti31; of the four electrons involved in the two OTi bonds, two are returned to the Ti41 ions and two are taken by the departing oxygen. A number of old tight-binding extended Hu ckel theory! calculations73,74 supported this picture and the inter- pretation of some electron energy loss spectroscopy EELS!54,7578 and ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy UPS!79 measurements was based on it.
Our calculations do not support it. Figure 4b! shows that many Ti atomsnot just those connected to the bridging oxygengain electron density when a vacancy is made by removing the oxygen atom, i.e., lose electron density when the oxygen is returned. The arrows labeled 4 show electron density gain at the Ti atoms bonded to the bridging oxygen.
However, equally large gains are seen on the Ti atoms la- beled 3 and 8 see Fig. 1!. If a transition from Ti41 to Ti31 took place, the charge gain on atoms 3 and 8 would not be present. Note also that the Ti atoms bound to the bridging oxygen lose some electron density @see Fig. 4a!#. This means that besides electron transfer from O to the Ti atom,we also have a charge rearrangement from one region around the Ti atom to another.
The fact that the creation of a vacancy disrupts the elec- tron density on the 5c-Ti atoms has chemical consequences.
If there is no vacancy, Au binds very weakly to the 5c-Ti. If a vacancy is formed, the bond to the 5c-Ti is strong 1.33 eV;see Table II!. The same is true for the binding of H and O2 to the 5c-Ti sites.80 The disruption of the charge density on the 5c-Ti atoms,during the formation of a vacancy, was also noted by Paxton and Thien-Nga,46 who performed calculations with a 131 unit cell and so could only study the stoichiometric and fully reduced surfaces.
We have also calculated the electron density difference Drvv5rv2rvv f 2rO . Here rvv f is the electron density of a fictitious system, denoted Svv f . This is created out of the system having 0.5 ML of vacancies, by freezing the atoms in place and then removing the last bridging oxygen atom from the 231 unit cell. rv is the electron density of the system with 0.5 ML vacancies. rO is the electron density of an oxy- gen atom in gas phase, placed at the location the atom has in the surface with 0.5 ML vacancies; Drvv describes the elec- tron density changes upon bonding of one oxygen atom at one of the vacant sites on the fictitious surface Svv f . This is the change in electron density when O binds to a surface with 1.0 ML vacancies, to create a surface with 0.5 ML vacancies.
In Fig. 4c! we show the positive values of Drvv , which is large in the regions that gain charge when the oxygen atom binds to the fully reduced, fictitious surface Svv f . The nega- tive values of Drvv can be seen in Fig. 4d!. These were calculated for a surface with a 231 unit cell. The story told by these pictures is similar to that obtained for the annihila- tion of a vacancy on the 0.5 ML surface: Much charge is transferred into the region occupied by the arriving oxygen atom, presumably to form the negative oxygen ion. Contrary to the case of vacancy annihilation in the 0.5 ML system, the charge taken by oxygen does not come from a large region of the slab, but only from the atoms neighboring the vacant sites @compare Fig. 4d! with Fig. 4b!#.
Roughly speaking, when a vacancy is annihilated the oxygen atom takes electron density from the surface with vacancy! to form an oxygen ion. It is likelybut not certainthat much of this charge density comes from the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO! of the surface with 0.5 ML vacancies. To test this, we have plotted in Fig. 5 the density of this HOMO. As we can see, this is very similar to the gain of density plotted in Fig. 4b!. The only difference is on the atoms marked 4 in Fig. 4b!, or Fig. 1. These are the 6c-Ti atoms which were bound to the bridging oxygen!.
Notice that the HOMO is delocalized over the thickness of the slab. We suspect that this is why the binding energy of the oxygen to the surface depends on slab thickness.
IV. THE ADSORPTION OF ONE AU ATOM ON TiO2 110
A. The adsorption of one Au atom
on stoichiometric TiO2 110 Geometry: We have examined various possible binding sites for a gold atom on the stoichiometric TiO2 110! sur- face. We found two preferred binding sites: one, shown in Fig. 6a!, located between the bridging oxygen labeled 1 in Figs. 1 and 6! and a 5c-Ti atom on the basal plane labeled 3 in Figs. 1 and 6!; the other, shown in Fig. 6b!, atop a bridg- TABLE II. Au adsorption on stoichiometric and reduced TiO2 110! sur- faces, with a 231 surface unit cell. BE, binding energy, taken as positive. r(AuTi), bond length. In the row Figure we indicate the figures where the structure is drawn.
Vacancy concentration
0.0 ML
0.5 ML
1.0 ML
BE, Au in optimal site Figure 6a! 6c! 6e! 9-layer
0.68 eV
2.33 eV
2.84 eV
12-layer
0.45 eV
2.47 eV
2.86 eV
15-layer
0.61 eV
2.38 eV
2.86 eV
BE, Au in alternative site Figure 6b! 6d! 6f! 9-layer
0.61 eV
1.33 eV
1.51 eV
r(AuTi), optimal site 9-layer
2.77 Å
2.67 Å
2.72 Å
12-layer
2.90 Å
2.66 Å
2.72 Å
15-layer
2.84 Å
2.67 Å
r(AuTi), alternative site 9-layer
2.47 Å
2.55 Å
6542
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Vijay, Mills, and Metiu Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions ing oxygen atom labeled 1 in Figs. 1 and 6!. There is little relaxation of the surface atoms when this binding occurs.
Energy: The binding energies of Au to the stoichiometric TiO2 surface, at the site shown in Fig. 6a!, are 0.68, 0.45,and 0.61 eV for 9-, 12-, and 15-layer systems, respectively see Table II!. There is a pronounced dependence of the bind- ing energy on slab thickness. Since we cannot perform cal- culations with more than 15 layers, we do not know whether the calculation for the largest layer is converged with re- spect to the slab thickness!.
We were rather surprised by this effect. The binding en- ergy is obtained by subtracting from the energy of Au/TiO2 110! the energy of the TiO2 110! slab and that of the Au atom and taking the absolute value of the result!. We ex- pected that the oscillations with thickness of the energy of the Au/TiO2 110! are, roughly, canceled by those in TiO2 110! energy; as a result, we were hoping that the binding energy of Au will be independent of slab thickness. One would reach the same conclusion if one thinks that the bind- ing of Au ought to be a local affair, involving only a few atoms in the neighborhood of the binding site. The calcula- tions do not confirm our expectations. We will come back to this shortly.
The binding energy to the site shown in Fig. 6b!, for the 9-layer system, is 0.61 eV. Spin-polarization causes a very slight increase in the binding energy about 0.08 eV! to ei- ther site.
Since the binding energies to these two sites are practi- cally identical within the errors of a DFT calculation!, the two sites will be equally populated by Au atoms. In prin- ciple, this result can be tested by low temperature STM mea- surements. Moreover, it is likely that the Au atom would be able to swing along the half circle, with the bridging oxygen as the axis, to move from one site to the other. These two sites would thus provide an easy path for diffusion, and so we expect diffusion of Au monomers on a stoichiometric TiO2 surface to be fast. To be sure, we would have to calcu- late the activation energy of the site-to-site transition, but one could hardly expect this to be large. This prediction could also be tested by STM measurements.
This prediction is also consistent with an indirect mea-
FIG. 5. A singly occupied HOMO highest occupied KohnSham orbital! of
a partially reduced TiO2 110! surface. The system has a 231 surface unit cell and is 9 layers deep. The plot shows a surface on which the electron density is 0.040 electrons/Å3. Light gray atoms are Ti and dark gray are O.
Atom labels are the same as in Figs. 1 and 2, but the viewing direction is different.
FIG. 6. Optimized structures of Au/TiO2 systems. Atoms labels are the
same as in Fig. 1. On the stoichiometric surface: a! Au binding between a bridging oxygen labeled 1! and a 5c-Ti labeled 3!; b! Au binding atop a bridging oxygen atom. On a reduced TiO2 surface with 0.5 ML of vacan- cies: c! Au binding to the vacancy site; d! Au binding atop a 5c-Ti. On a fully reduced TiO2 surface: e! Au binding to a vacancy site; f! Au binding to a 5c-Ti atom. In c!f! we show only the upper part of the surface, since the lower part is unaffected by gold adsorption. The dotted circles in d!, e!,and f! denote the position of vacancies, which were occupied by the bridg- ing oxygen atoms prior to surface reduction. The binding energy for a Au atom is also shown. 6543
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Adsorption of gold on TiO2 (110) Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions surement by Campbell et al.,25 of the kinetics of Au island growth on TiO2 110! at different temperatures. If one as- sumes a model in which a push-out mechanism is active i.e., exchange descent of adatoms that land atop an island,leaving the island two-dimensional!then the data imply a monomer diffusion barrier of 0.07 eV for the stoichiometric surface. Since the experiment does not rule out other kinetic models for Au island growth, this result should not be con- sidered definitive. Nevertheless, we find it remarkable that this unusually small barrier should be suggested by both ex- periment and theory.
The nature of bonding: To throw some light on the nature of bonding between Au and the stoichiometric TiO2 surface, we examine the shifts in electron density when this bond is formed. For this, we calculate the electron den- sity difference DrAu/TiO2,s5rAu/TiO2,s2rTiO2,s f 2rAu.
Here rAu/TiO2,s is the electron density of the stoichiometric TiO2 surface with Au adsorbed on the site shown in Fig. 6a!;rTiO2,s f is the electron density of a fictitious stoichiometric TiO2,s surface, whose atoms are in the same position as the atoms in the Au/TiO2 system; rAu is the electron density of a gas-phase Au atom, placed at the position where Au is lo- cated in Au/TiO2,s . To understand the meaning of DrAu/TiO2,s imagine the following process. We start with the fictitious TiO2,s f surface, bring to it a gas-phase Au atom and place it in the position Au has in the system Au/TiO2,s . During this placement we keep the electron density of both subsystems frozen. Then, we allow the electron density to relax, but keep the positions of the atoms frozen. DrAu/TiO2,s represents the change of electron density caused by this relaxation; it gives the electron displacements caused by bond formation, when Au binds to the stoichiometric surface of TiO2 .
The positive values of DrAu/TiO2,s show in what regions Au bonding causes an increase in electron density; the nega- tive values show where bonding causes electron loss.
Figure 7a! shows a plot of the positive values of DrAu/TiO2,s and Fig. 7b! shows the negative values. The cal- culations were performed for a Au atom bound between a bridging oxygen and a 5c-Ti atom @the position shown in Fig. 6a!#. We see that bond formation involves a movement of electrons into the region between the Au and 5c-Ti atom,indicating that a bond forms between them. These electrons come mainly from d-type orbitals on the Au @Fig. 7b!#; Au acts here as a charge donor. It is understandable that the electrons forming the AuTi bond are supplied by the neutral Au atom, rather than the oxidized Ti atom. The bridging oxygen near the Au atom @marked 1 in Figs. 7a! and 7b!# is minimally involved in the formation of the bond between Au and the TiO2 surface.
The binding energy of Au atop a bridging-oxygen atom @for forming the structure shown in Fig. 6b!# is nearly the same as that of forming the structure shown in Fig. 6a!.
However, the nature of electron density change caused by binding to the bridging oxygen is markedly different. Charge is lost and gained @see Figs. 7c! and 7d!# throughout the slab; no simple picture emerges. We mention that the elec- tron density gain resembles the shape of the lowest unoccu- pied molecular orbital LUMO! of the stoichiometric sur- face, suggesting that bond formation involves some electron density transfer from Au to the LUMO of the surface. This interpretation is consistent with calculations by Lopez and Nrskov,53 who found charge donation from Au atoms at this site, and by Giordano et al.,29 who found that Cu and Ag atoms, which are less electronegative than Au, bind more strongly by 1.01.5 eV to this site than does Au, which also suggests that the metal atoms bind here by donating charge to the unreduced TiO2 substrate.
B. Adsorption of Au on a partially reduced surface
The geometry of the binding sites: We have explored various possible binding sites on the partially reduced sur- face 0.5 ML!. We report first calculations for a system with a 231 surface unit cell. The geometry of the most stable binding site is shown in Fig. 6c!, where Au occupies the bridging site vacated by the oxygen atom.
When Au binds to the vacancy site, the atoms in the basal plane of TiO2 110!, which were distorted upon surface reduction, partially revert to the positions they had in the stoichiometric surface. The electronegativity of a Au atom
2.5! is not as large as that of oxygen 3.5!, but it is never-
theless high. One expects that a Au atom will go to the va- cancy site to replace the missing oxygen atom. This suggests
FIG. 7. Gains and losses of electron density due to Au adsorption on a
stoichiometric TiO2 110! surface. a! and b! Density gain and loss when Au is placed between a bridging oxygen labeled 1! and a 5c-Ti labeled 3! @Fig. 6a!#. c! and d! Density gain and loss when Au binds atop a bridging oxygen, as shown in Fig. 6b!. The system has a 231 surface unit cell and is 9 layers deep. Contour levels are as in Fig. 5. Light gray atoms are Ti,dark gray are O, and black atom is Au. Atom labels are the same as in Fig. 1. 6544
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Vijay, Mills, and Metiu Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions that Au acts as a charge acceptor, like oxygen, albeit less effectively.
Another stable binding site, located directly above a 5c- Ti, is shown in Fig. 6d!. We note that, in the case of a stoichiometric surface, Au does not bind at all at a site di- rectly above a 5c-Ti atom, even though this is sterically available. Reducing the surface activates the 5c-Ti site to bind Au strongly. This is another indication that oxygen re- moval affects atoms that are far from the vacancy site.
The 231 surface, with one bridging oxygen removed,has two kinds of 5c-Ti atoms: one adjacent to, and one di- agonally across from, the vacant bridging site. The binding energies of Au to these sites differ by only 0.01 eV; within the errors made by DFT these two sites have identical bind- ing energy. This lack of dependence of the energy on the location of the 5c-Ti forming the bond, points to the fact that the electrons left in the system upon oxygen removal occupy quasidelocalized states.
Binding energy: As expected, a Au atom binds much more strongly to the reduced surface than to the stoichio- metric one. The binding energies of Au to the vacancy site @Fig. 6c!# are 2.33, 2.47, and 2.38 eV, for a 9-, 12-, and 15-layer system, respectively see Table II!. The binding en- ergies obtained by a spin-polarized calculation are larger, by about 0.20 eV, than those obtained when using ordinary DFT.
The binding energy of Au at the 5c-Ti site @Fig. 6d!#, is
1.33 eV for a 9-layer system. The binding energy given by
spin-polarized calculations are larger by 0.24 eV than that given by ordinary DFT.
Electron transfer upon bonding: The removal of an O atom, to form a vacancy, leaves behind some electron density that was tied up to form the O2d ion at the surface. This excess electron density could be donated to an adsorbed metal cluster or to a single atom! during bond formation.
One would therefore infer that the enhanced binding of Au to the reduced surface, on or near the site of reduction, is due to this electron transfer. Here Au acts somewhat like the O that was removed, although more weakly; it accepts some, but not all, electron density that the O left behind. This is why the binding to the bridging site is far stronger than that of Au to the stoichiometric surface.
To look into the nature of the gold-surface binding mechanism in detail, we have calculated Dr(Au/TiO2,v) [r(Au/TiO2,v)2r(Au/TiO2,v f )2r(Au). Here r(Au/TiO2,v) is the electron density of a TiO2 surface with a 231 surface unit cell and a vacancy coverage of 0.5 ML, on which a Au atom is bound at the vacancy site. r(Au/TiO2,v f ) is the den- sity of a fictitious TiO2 surface that has 0.5 ML vacancy coverage, a 231 unit cell, and all the atoms in the positions they have on the Au/TiO2,v surface. rAu! is the density of a gas-phase Au atom, placed at the position Au has in Au/TiO2,v .To understand Dr(Au/TiO2,v), imagine that we brought the Au atom to the vacancy site in TiO2,v f , while we kept the electron density frozen. Once all atomic positions are the same as in Au/TiO2,v , we allow the charge density to change, while keeping the atoms in place. Dr(Au/TiO2,v) is the electron density change in this process.In Fig. 8a! we show the positive values of Dr(Au/TiO2,v), which indicate those regions of space where the system gains charge upon Au bonding. We see electron density piling up in the region between the Au atom located roughly where the missing bridging oxygen used to be! and the Ti atoms. This is the charge density responsible for bond- ing. The regions that lose electron density are shown in Fig. 8b!. Some density is lost from a d-type orbital of Au and the rest comes from surface Ti atoms labeled 3, see Fig. 1!.Bonding of Au to a vacant site changes the electron density in the surface region only. To some extent, bringing Au to the vacant site depletes the Ti atoms of electrons. It is not clear if one can describe this as a conversion of Ti31 to Ti41, but the positive charge on Ti certainly increases.Figures 8c! and 8d! show the positive and the negative values, respectively, of the difference charge density for the situation when Au binds to the 5c-Ti on the surface basal plane. Here, we see a charge accumulation in the region be- tween Au and 5c-Ti. This density comes from a d-type or- bital of Au and from surface Ti atoms.It is interesting to compare Figs. 8a! and 8b! to Figs. 4a! and 4b! that show the change of charge density when an oxygen atom is brought to a vacant site. Two features are notable. The O atom draws electron density onto itself; Au pulls it only between itself and the Ti atoms. Furthermore, O pulls electron density from a deeper region of the slab. These observations are consistent with the fact that O is more elec- tronegative than Au and that the binding energy of O, but not that of Au, depends strongly on slab thickness.Role of electronegativity: We have so far seen that the HOMO of the reduced surface is delocalized and penetrates deeply into the slab Fig. 5!. This is in contrast to the naive idea that the excess electrons sit on adjacent Ti atoms, or
FIG. 8. Gains and losses of electron density due to Au adsorption on a
reduced TiO2 110! surface with 0.5 ML vacancies. a! and b! Density gain and loss when Au binds to a vacancy site previously occupied by a bridging oxygen! as shown in Fig. 6c!. c! and d! The situation when Au binds atop a 5c-Ti on the basal plane @Fig. 6d!#. The system has a 231 surface unit cell and is nine layers deep. Contour levels are as in Fig. 5. Light gray atoms are Ti, dark gray are O, and black atom is Au. Atom labels are the same as in Fig. 1. 6545
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Adsorption of gold on TiO2 (110) Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions inside the vacancy. The latter idea implied that metal at- oms, or clusters, bound at the vacancy site will make use of these electrons and become negatively charged. This, in turn,would affect the chemistry they will engage in. It turns out that these electrons are delocalized, but O or Au binding to the vacancy site do retrieve them when they bind to the sur- face.
We conjecture that this is due to the high electronegativ- ity of O and Au, and that a high electronegativity implies a high binding energyand possibly, a modified catalytic ac- tivity. We can test this idea by placing Ag on the same sites that adsorb Au on the half-reduced 231 surface!. If our hypothesis is correct, since Ag has smaller electronegativity than Au, we expect it to make a weaker bond with the re- duced TiO2 surface.
We find the binding energy of Ag to be: 1.12 eV on the vacancy site and 0.29 eV on the 5c-Ti; this is much less than the values for Au in the same sites!, which are 2.33 and 1.33 eV, respectively.
C. Adsorption of Au on a completely reduced surface
The binding of a Au atom on the fully reduced surface
1.0 ML of vacancies! is qualitatively similar to that on the
partially reduced surface: Au binds either to a vacancy site @Fig. 6e!# or to a 5c-Ti atom @Fig. 6f!#.
The fully reduced surface binds Au more strongly than the partially reduced one. The binding energy to the vacancy site is 2.84, 2.86, and 2.86 eV, for the 9-, 12-, and 15-layer systems, respectively. The thickness of the slab has no effect on this binding energy. In our study of the completely re- duced surface, we have seen that the shift of the electron density, upon removal of a second oxygen atom from the surface unit cell to obtain a fully reduced surface!, took place only at the surface of the slab; removing O places the electron density at the surface of the slab. Since this density is used to bind Au, we expect that binding energy is not affected by the thickness of the slab.
The effect of spin-polarization is strong, increasing the binding energy to the vacancy site, by 0.25 eV, and to a 5c-Ti atom, by 0.3 eV in calculations performed with a 9-layer system!.
D. Auvacancy interaction
We have seen that a Au atom prefers to bind on the vacancy site of the reduced TiO2 110! surface. The calcula- tions reported in Sec. IV B were performed with a 231 sur- face unit cell and a 0.5 ML vacancy coverage. We can also inquire into the effect of different vacancy distributions on Au binding, by placing Au in various vacant sites on a sur- face having a 332 unit cell and a 0.5 ML vacancy coverage.
Such calculations will tell us how the Au binding energy depends on various vacancy configurations at the same va- cancy coverage!.
The situations studied are shown in Fig. 9. In all cases we have placed Au on a vacancy site, on a reduced surface.
The geometries are as follows: a! a surface with only one vacancy 1/6 ML! and Au in that site; b! one with three vacancies in the missing-row configuration sites 1a, 1b, and 1c of Fig. 2 are vacant!, and the Au placed in site 1a; c! one with three vacancies in the J-shaped distribution sites 1a, 1b,and 1d of Fig. 2 are vacant! and Au at site 1d; d! a J-shaped configuration with Au at site 1a. The top view of the surface is shown in the insets, which display the occupancy in the two rows of bridging oxygen sites.
The binding energy of Au in these cases is: a! 1.18 eV,b! 2.63 eV, c! 1.69 eV, d! 2.94 eV. Clearly, the distribution of nearby vacancies has a large effect on the ability of a given vacant site to bind Au. The most evident feature is that Au binds more weakly to more isolated vacancies @i.e., cases a! and c! in Fig. 9#.
As in the case of vacancy formation, we have attempted to describe the interaction of Au with neighboring vacancies,by using a pairwise additive lattice Hamiltonian: E5E@vac#1nAuEAu1nadj AuvEadj Auv1ndiag AuvEdiag Auv . 2!
Here E@vac# is the energy for vacancyvacancy interac- tions obtained in Sec. III E, Eq. 1!. EAu is the energy to put Au on the system; since our reference is the stoichiometric
FIG. 9. Various systems used to study Auvacancy interaction. All have a
Au atom bound to a vacancy site in a reduced 332 system. The schematics show a top view of the bridging oxygen sites, either still holding an oxygen O!, vacant v!, or vacant and occupied by Au; see Fig. 2. a! Au in the only vacancy site of a system with one vacancy 1/6 ML vacancy coverage!. b!
A missing-row vacancy arrangement, with Au in one of the three vacant sites. c! A J-shaped vacancy arrangement sites 1a, 1b, and 1d in Fig. 2 are vacant!, with Au in site 1d. d! Same as c! but with Au in site 1a. 6546
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Vijay, Mills, and Metiu Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions surface, this is actually the energy to bring Au down from the gas phase and kick off oxygen as 1/2 O2(g). The other terms are analogous to the ones used in vacancyvacancy interac- tions, but count goldvacancy neighbors. We have no ex- amples of a Au atom across from a vacancy, so that term does not appear here.
We must use the results obtained in Sec. III E for vacancyvacancy interactions here, because the surfaces with gold have remaining vacancies, in various distributions,and these vacancies will continue to interact with each other.
The strong repulsion between vacancies turns out to be im- portant for the binding of Au on reduced TiO2 surfaces.
The systems shown in Fig. 9 have the following coeffi- cients: nAu51 always; a! all n are zero; b! nadj51,nadj Auv 52; c! nadj51,ndiag Auv54; d! ndiag52,nadj Auv51,ndiag Auv52.
First, we obtain from system a! that EAu50.60 eV. This is positive as expected, since gold, although it is an elec- tronegative metal, is not as electronegative as oxygen and so putting Au on the vacancy site does not give us back all the energy lost when O was removed.
We now have two unknowns, Eadj Auv and Ediag Auv , and three equations, from systems b!d!. The equations are:from b!,2 Eadj Auv52.107 eV;from c!,4 Ediag Auv
51.740 eV; from d!, Eadj
Auv12 Ediag Auv51.149 eV. It is easy to see that the energy of d! is low compared to b! and c!.
We fit the unknown energies using the least-squares method.
We obtain Eadj Auv50.92 eV, Ediag Auv50.37 eV. The errors are: 0.26 eV for b! and c!, and 0.52 eV for d!. These errors are large, indicating that we should draw from this decom- position only qualitative conclusions. 1! Au binds more strongly to heavily reduced regions of the surface. This can be understood as follows: When Au binds to a vacant site in a region with several nearby vacan- cies, it eliminates one vacancy and therefore some vacancy repulsion energy goes away; this will show up as a larger binding energy for Au. 2! Au interacts more strongly with a vacancy adjacent to it in the same row than it does with diagonally neighbor- ing vacancies on the next row over!. This is not surprising since adjacent bridging-oxygen sites are much closer than diagonal ones by a factor of 2.5!. Perhaps we should be surprised instead that the diagonal interaction is so strong,since the Auvacancy distance in this case is rather large.
V. THE GOLD DIMER ADSORBED ON TiO2 110
Since we suspect that catalytically active clusters are bound to defects on the TiO2 surface, we study here only the binding of Au2 to the partially 0.5 ML vacancies! and the fully reduced 1.0 ML vacancies! surfaces. These results are summarized in Table III.
In all calculations involving Au2 we have used a 332 surface unit cell. Had we used a 231 surface unit cell, the Au dimers in the periodic replicas of the system would have been very close to each other, and would have interacted strongly. The use of the 332 cell lowers the Au coverage on the surface. However, the larger size of the system requires some simplifications. We worked with a soft pseudopotential for the oxygen, which has a smaller energy cutoff, to make the calculation more efficient. Tests on the smaller systems TABLE III. Au2 adsorption on reduced TiO2 110! surfaces, with a 332 surface unit cell with a 9-layer slab.
In the row Figure we report the figure where the binding geometry is illustrated. BE, binding energy, taken as positive and relative to gas-phase Au2 . r, bond length. Where there are several AuTi bonds, we report only the range of lengths.
Au2 arrangement Vacancy concentration
0.5 ML, missing row
0.5 ML, J-shaped
1.0 ML
On adjacent Figure 10a! 10b! 10c! vacancies
BE
3.00 eV
3.14 eV
3.46 eV
r(AuAu)
3.34 Å
2.82 Å
3.29 Å
r(AuTi)
2.662.72 Å
2.702.72 Å
2.572.71 Å
On vacancy and Figure 10d! 10e! 10f! adjacent 5c-Ti
BE
1.94 eV
2.30 eV
2.43 eV
r(AuAu)
2.76 Å
2.77 Å
2.78 Å
r(AuTi)
2.662.73 Å
2.622.68 Å
2.662.74 Å
On adjacent Figure 11a! 11b! 11c! 5c-Tis
BE
0.63 eV
0.61 eV
0.99 eV
r(AuAu)
2.62 Å
2.64 Å
2.64 Å
r(AuTi)
2.78 Å
2.77 Å
2.752.80 Å
Vertical atop Figure 11d! 11e! 11f! a vacancy
BE
1.74 eV
2.10 eV
2.14 eV
r(AuAu)
2.61 Å
2.59 Å
2.64 Å
r(AuTi)
2.592.73 Å
2.62 Å
2.582.72 Å
Asymmetric Figure 11g!
BE
1.00 eV
r(AuAu)
2.53 Å
r(AuTi)
2.92 Å
r(AuO)
2.18 Å
6547
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Adsorption of gold on TiO2 (110) Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions show that this has a negligible effect on the binding energy of Au to the surface. We have used only 9-layer slabs for the dimer calculations, even though we expect that on the par- tially reduced surface the binding energy depends on the thickness of the slab. We sampled the Brillouin zone at only the gamma point, for this larger surface unit cell. The quali- tative features of the system i.e., binding sites, geometry,order of stability of various configurations! are not affected by these approximations.
All calculations on the 332 surface were spin-polarized.
Including electron spin ought to be important here, because Au binding to reduced TiO2 involves the highest energy elec- trons of the substrate. These states lie in the band gap of the stoichiometric system, and predominantly contain the net magnetic moment, so forcing all electrons to pair up would ignore the stabilization of these orbitals and would substan- tially alter the apparent binding energy of Au or Au2 . We confirmed this expectation with a few test calculations: dis- allowing electron polarization reduces the apparent binding energy of Au2 by up to 1 eV.
To make a surface with 0.5 ML of vacancies, in a calcu- lation using a 332 surface unit cell, we remove three of the six bridging oxygen atoms present in the surface unit cell.
Here we can have several vacancy distributions for the same
0.5 ML coverage. We have used the missing-row and the
J-shaped distributions see Sec. III C!.
Binding of Au2 to adjacent oxygen vacancies: Au2 binds more strongly to the TiO2 110! surface with a 0.5 ML of vacancies when both Au atoms are located on the sites va- cated by the bridging oxygen atoms. The corresponding structures are shown in Figs. 10a!10c!. In Fig. 10a! we show two Au atoms bound to the vacant row, on a 0.5 ML surface in which the three missing oxygens are all from the same row. The binding energy is 3.00 eV. Figure 10b! shows the two Au atoms bound to the two neighboring oxygen va- cancies, present in a 0.5 ML surface with a J-shaped vacancy arrangement. The binding energy is 3.14 eV. Finally, Fig. 10c! shows the bond of Au2 to a fully reduced surface: The two Au atoms are bonded in the positions that have been occupied by two neighboring bridging-oxygen atoms. The binding energy is 3.46 eV. Clearly, Au2 binds the more strongly, the more reduced the surface. The increase of the binding energy in going from a! to b! in Fig. 10 can be attributed to repulsion between vacancies.
In the structures shown in Figs. 10a! and 10c!, the AuAu distance is 3.3 Å; the bond length of a gas-phase gold dimer is 2.53 Å. In Fig. 10b!, a bridging oxygen is adjacent to both ends of the Au2 dimer because of periodic boundary conditions! and the AuAu separation is much shorter, 2.8 Å. In all three cases, the gold atoms have the same height, 2.7 Å, above the 6c-Ti on the basal plane.
To what extent do the two Au atoms interact? The very long AuAu bond in Figs. 10a! and 10c! suggests the dimer has almost dissociated. However, there might be a through-surface interaction between the Au atoms, since, as described earlier, the TiO2 orbitals near the Fermi level are substantially delocalized.
To measure the AuAu interaction direct or through- surface!, we have calculated the difference DE5Eb(Au2) 2(Ed(Au2)12Eb(Au)), where Eb(Au2) is the binding en- ergy of Au2 to the surface, Ed(Au2) is the dissociation en- ergy of Au2 in gas phase, and Eb(Au) is the binding energy of a Au atom to the surface. DE is thus the difference in binding energy of the dimer compared to that of two sepa- rated monomers. If the adsorbed Au atoms do not interact, DE will be close to zero.
In the case of a surface with 0.5 ML of vacancies, DE is
0.96 eV for a row of vacancies, and 1.10 eV for vacancies in
a J-shape. For a surface with 1.0 ML of vacancies, DE is
0.40 eV.
In all cases, the interaction between the two Au atoms on the surface is sizable. Not surprisingly, it is the largest in the case of the J-shaped vacancies, because the AuAu distance is the smallest in that case. Interestingly, the AuAu interac- tion is dissimilar in the other two cases @Figs. 10a! and 10c!#, although the bond length is the same. This indicates that the Au atoms must interact through the substrate, by way of changes in the electronic structure.
FIG. 10. Optimized structures of Au2 /TiO2 systems.
a!c! The situation when both Au atoms bind to ad- jacent vacant bridging sites. d!f! The situation when one Au binds to the vacant bridging site and the other Au binds to the 5c-Ti. a! and d! A surface with a missing row of bridging oxygens 0.5 ML of vacancies;atoms 1a, 1b, and 1c are missing in Fig. 2!. b! and e!
A surface with a J-shaped vacancy distribution 0.5 ML of vacancies; atoms 1a, 1b, and 1d are missing in Fig. 2!; and c! and f! fully reduced surface 1.0 ML of vacancies!. For brevity, only the first three layers of TiO2 are shown. 6548
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Vijay, Mills, and Metiu Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions Binding to an oxygen-vacancy and a 5c-Ti atom: Au2 binds fairly strongly with one atom in an oxygen-vacancy site and the other bound to a 5c-Ti atom located in the basal plane. The structure for a surface with 0.5 ML vacan- cies in a missing-row arrangement is shown in Fig. 10d!.
The binding energy is 1.94 eV. The structure for the surface with 0.5 ML of vacancies in a J-shape is shown in Fig. 10e!.
The binding energy is 2.30 eV. Finally, the structure in the case of the fully reduced surface is shown in Fig. 10f!. The binding energy is 2.34 eV. Once again, we find that the fully reduced surface makes a stronger bond with Au2 .
Calculations of DE for these three situations yield 0.90 and 1.26 eV, for the two partially reduced systems, and 0.70 eV for the fully reduced one. Au2 is far from being dissoci- ated.
In all three binding situations @Figs. 10d!10f!#, the AuAu distance is 2.77 Å. This is different from what we saw when the Au atoms occupied adjacent bridging sites.
Both Au atoms tilt away from their symmetric position rela- tive to the bulk, in order to form a AuAu bond of the desired length.
A vertical Au2 cluster bound to an oxygen-vacancy site: Figures 11a!11c! show a number of structures in which Au2 is perpendicular to the basal plane, and binds through one Au atom to an oxygen-vacancy site. In Fig. 11a! we show the structure of Au2 binding to a surface having 0.5 ML of vacancies, arranged in a row. The binding energy is
1.74 eV. The case of a surface with a J-shaped vacancy ar-
rangement 0.5 ML coverage! is shown in Fig. 11b!. The binding energy is 2.10 eV. Finally, the geometry of Au2 ver- tically bound to a fully reduced surface is shown in Fig. 11c!. The binding energy is 2.14 eV. On the fully reduced surface the dimer is tilted substantially, away from the verti- cal direction. In all cases, the AuAu distance is in the range
2.592.64 Å, and the lower Au atom is 2.582.63 Å above
the basal surface plane.
Binding to an adjacent pair of 5c-Ti atoms: The opti- mum geometries for this kind of bond are shown in Figs. 11d!11f!. Figure 11d! shows binding to a 0.5 ML surface with the vacancies in a row. The binding energy is 0.63 eV.
Binding to a surface with 0.5 ML coverage and vacancies arranged in a J-shape is shown in Fig. 11e!. The binding energy is 0.61 eV. Finally, the geometry of bonding to a fully reduced surface is shown in Fig. 11f! and the binding energy is 0.99 eV. Again, the fully reduced surface binds more strongly to gold dimer than the partially reduced one.
In all three cases, the AuAu distance is near its gas- phase value 2.622.64 Å, compared to 2.53 Å in the gas phase!. The height of the Au dimer above the surface plane is
2.77 Å, and is the same in all cases studied.
Au2 cluster bound to a bridging oxygen: Figure 11g! shows the Au2 cluster bound to the bridging oxygen and 5c-Ti atoms, for a surface with 0.5 ML vacancy coverage,distributed in a J-shape. The AuO distance is 2.18 Å and the binding energy is 1.00 eV.
The trends seen for the monomer are also observed for the dimer: the more reduced the surface is, the stronger the
FIG. 11. Optimized structures of Au2 /TiO2 systems.
a!c! Au2 binds vertically to the vacant bridging site;d!f! both Au atoms bind to adjacent 5c-Ti atoms. In a!f!, the vacancy distribution of the TiO2 substrate matches that in Fig. 10. g! An asymmetric Au2 geom- etry, possible on a surface with a J-shaped vacancy ar- rangement. 6549
J. Chem. Phys., Vol. 118, No. 14, 8 April 2003
Adsorption of gold on TiO2 (110) Downloaded 17 May 2013 to 150.108.161.71. This article is copyrighted as indicated in the abstract. Reuse of AIP content is subject to the terms at: http://jcp.aip.org/about/rights_and_permissions binding; the preferred binding site is to the bridging oxygen vacancy; there is significant binding to nearby 5c-Ti sites.
VI. DISCUSSION
As expected, we find that oxygen vacancies on the TiO2 110! surface are chemically active. Oxygen removal from the surface causes the electrons that were bound to oxygen to spread out over a large volume around the newly created vacancy. Nevertheless, these electrons are still available and are used in forming the bond between a Au atom, or diatomic cluster, and the defect site. The binding energy to the va- cancy site correlates with the electronegativity of the atom binding there.
By leaving behind a delocalized disturbance, the creation of an oxygen vacancy activates the 5c-Ti atoms in the basal plane, and makes them bind Au rather strongly. These atoms are accessible to Au when the surface has perfect stoichiom- etry, but are unable to make a strong bond with Au.
We note that previous work assumed that a vacancy cre- ation is accompanied by a reduction of the two Ti atoms to which the removed oxygen was bound, from Ti41 to Ti31.
We find that the two Ti atoms just mentioned do not gain more electron density than other Ti atoms located at larger distances from the vacancy site; the increase in electron densitywhen the vacancy is formedoccurs on a much larger region than previously believed. While the two adja- cent Ti atoms gain some charge, it is far less than the one electron needed for turning Ti41 into Ti31.
Some of the predictions made by our calculations can be verified qualitatively by experiments. Imagine that one de- posits Au atoms from vapor!, for a short time, with a low flux and at very low surface temperature. The incoming Au atoms will stick to the surface, close to the place where they have landed. Due to the deposition conditions we specified,the density of these atoms on the surface is low and so is their mobility. The surface will have mostly isolated Au at- oms on it, and perhaps some dimers we assume that the Au vapor consists of atoms!. Next, one can increase gradually the surface temperature to give the Au atoms some surface mobility. We assume that the surface has steps and the ter- races between steps have oxygen vacancies on them and patches where the oxygen composition is stoichiometric. Our results imply that the atoms have high mobility on the sto- ichiometric patches on terraces. They will move until they get trapped by steps or by oxygen vacancies. If the tempera- ture is not too high, the atoms will get stuck in these traps.
STM measurements, at low temperature, can verify whether this scenario is true. By increasing the temperature, one will observe the Au atoms leave the sites to which they bind weakly and migrate to those to which they bind strongly.
Such experiments should be performed on surface sites hav- ing the largest terraces, to minimize interference from the steps.
Experiments in Whettens group81 and calculations in our group82 show that binding of oxygen to Au clusters in the gas phase depends on the number of valence electrons in the cluster. Clusters with an odd number of electrons bind O2 strongly, while binding to clusters having an even number of electrons is weak. The present calculations show that when Au or Au2 bind to oxygen-vacancy sites, they use electron density from the substrate; upon binding to the surface, the Au cluster becomes negatively charged. Thus a Au2 cluster bound to a vacancy is closer to having an odd number of electrons depending on the pseudopotential used, a gold atom has either 11 or 19 valence electrons!. As a result, a Au2 cluster adsorbed on an oxygen vacancy site would ad- sorb oxygen strongly, while the same cluster adsorbed on a stoichiometric surface would not. Thus, the catalytic chem- istry is likely to be sensitive to both the number of atoms in the cluster and to the location of the cluster on the surface.
We note that experiments and theory36 provide some evi- dence that a Au8 cluster adsorbed on MgO is active in CO oxidation, if it is located on a defect site, but it is not if it is located on a perfect oxide surface.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 