<quotes>

[1] "Some progress in understanding the relationships between catalyst structure and performance has been reported recently for metal oxide-supported vanadia. 78,79 A series of catalysts ranging in V2O5 weight loading from 1% to 15% were prepared and then characterized by X-ray absorption, Raman spectroscopy, UVvisible absorption spectroscopy, and EXAFS. Since calcination at 773 K caused changes in the BET surface area of the samples, which depended on the weight loading of vanadia, the loading of vanadia is expressed in V atoms/nm2. Selective adsorption of CO2 on the zirconia support reveals that up to 1.2 V/nm2, corresponding to 60% coverage of the support, is deposited primarily as monomeric vanadate species. At higher vanadia surface densities, polyvanadates appear, and the surface of the zirconia becomes fully covered by a monolayer of vanadia at a surface density of 7.5 V/nm2. Raman spectroscopy and UVvisible absorption edge energy measurements confirm the progressive growth in the nuclearity of the supported vandia species with increasing vanadia surface loading. Values of the rate coefficients for eqs 911 were determined and examined as a function of vanadia domain size, which correlates with the UVvisible absorption band edge energy. As seen in Figure 5, while the value of k1 increases with increasing domain size, the ratio of k2/k1 decreases and the ratio of k3/k1 is independent of domain size. These results indicate that ODH requires large vanadia domains. Propene combustion also occurs preferentially on large polyvanadate domains, but propane combustion occurs preferentially on smaller domains."
[2] "While many oxide catalysts exhibit high alkene selectivity (e.g., >80%) at very low alkane conversion levels, all show a decrease in alkene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion. For supported metal oxides, it has been observed empirically that the decline in olefin selectivity with increasing alkane conversion decreases with increasing basicity of the support."
[3] "The considerable flexibility of POMs within a well-defined structure has led to the application of these materials as homogeneous and/or heterogeneous catalysts for a wide range of acid-catalyzed and oxidative conversions of organic molecules. Examples of the applicability of POMs for alkane oxidation include isobutane to methacrolein and methacrylic acid using H3PMo12O40 and vanadium-substituted derivatives, 92-94 oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes using iron-substituted heteropolytungstates and heteropolymolybdates,92,93 propane oxidation to acrylic acid, 95 and methane oxidation to formic acid using PdCs salts of PVMo11O40. 94-96 There is also evidence suggesting that improved activity and selectivity for various metal-catalyzed oxidation processes can be achieved by coupling redox-active metal centers with redox-active POMs."
[4] "The most attractive feature of these electrophilic systems is their selectivity: the reactivity of the methyl group is substantially greater than that of an already functionalized position such as HCH2OH or HCH2SO4H (by as much as 100 times). It is possible by using the Shilov system to effect the remote oxidation of highly flexible linear and branched alkyl chains. The order of reactivity is α-CH  β-CH < γ-CH < δ-CH for alcohols and α-CH  β-CH < γ-CH  δ-CH for carboxylic acids, sulfonic acids, and phosphonic acids. 102 As a consequence of these properties, it is possible to achieve precise control with respect to the extent of oxidation (eq 14). These selectivity patterns suggest that higher alkanes might be sequentially oxidized to α,ω-diols (eq 15) and when coupled to primary alcohol dehydration alkanes to α-olefins (eq 16)."
[5] "The mechanisms of the Shilov system, 103 representing one class of such electrophilic hydroxylation systems, have now been studied extensively, and many of the mechanistic features have been established. 104 The reaction takes place in three stages: (i) electrophilic activation of RH by Pt(II) via a σ complex and a Pt(IV) alkyl hydride that undergoes deprotonations to a Pt(II) alkyl; (ii) oxidation by Pt(IV) to give a Pt(IV) alkyl; (iii) nucleophilic, SN2 attack of water at the α carbon of the latter with loss of H+ to give alcohol with Pt(II) as the leaving group. A key feature of the system is that the first step involves electrophilic attack by Pt(II) at the alkane CH bond, generating a platinum(II) alkyl-polarized Ptδ+Cδ-; following oxidation to platinum (IV) in second step, the bond reverses polarity to Ptδ-Cδ+, becoming susceptible to nucleophilic attack at carbon in step iii."
[6] "A number of significant challenges must be overcome in order to develop catalysts for the selective, energy-efficient oxidation of alkanes to valuable chemical products without large quantities of unwanted byproducts such as CO2. These include the following: (1) identification of the reaction pathways leading to primary and secondary products and determination of the rate coefficients for each path; (2) in situ identification of reactive intermediates; (3) determination of the reactivity of different forms of oxygen present at the catalyst surface and their role in catalyzing desired and undesired oxidation processes; (4) identification of the elementary processes involved in hydrogen abstraction, carboncarbon bond cleavage, and oxygen insertion and the role of redox properties of metal cations in these processes; (5) establishment of the relative reactivities of carbonhydrogen bonds (1, 2, 3, HCH2X (X = OH, halide, etc.) toward soluble transition-metal complexes capable of electrophilic CH bond activation; (6) identification of the mechanisms and requirements for oxidation of Pt(II) alkyls; (7) developing approaches for rapid screening of potential electrophilic transition-metal complexes for selective, catalytic hydrocarbon oxidations under dioxygen; and (8) for new biomimetic catalysts, the development of robust ligands that can withstand oxidizing conditions of the reaction, the design of reaction conditions that maintain low oxidant concentrations to minimize undesirable side reactions such as hydroxy radical formation, and the development of catalysts that utilize O2 as oxidant."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. For example, the decline in olefin selectivity with increasing alkane conversion decreases with increasing basicity of the support for supported metal oxides. The size of vanadia domains on metal oxide-supported vanadia catalysts affects the selectivity of propene combustion and propane combustion. The flexibility of polyoxometalates (POMs) within a well-defined structure has led to their application as homogeneous and/or heterogeneous catalysts for a wide range of acid-catalyzed and oxidative conversions of organic molecules, including alkane oxidation. The selectivity of electrophilic systems, such as the Shilov system, for the oxidation of alkanes is influenced by the reactivity of different carbon-hydrogen bonds, with the methyl group being substantially more reactive than already functionalized positions. The mechanisms of the Shilov system involve electrophilic activation of RH by Pt(II), oxidation by Pt(IV), and nucleophilic attack of water at the α carbon of the Pt(IV) alkyl with loss of H+ to give alcohol with Pt(II) as the leaving group.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的五氧化二钒和金属交换沸石，影响烷烃转化的机制和效率。例如，对于支撑的金属氧化物，随着烷烃转化率的增加，烯烃选择性的下降随着支撑物碱性的增加而减少。在金属氧化物支撑的五氧化二钒催化剂上，五氧化二钒域的大小影响了丙烯燃烧和丙烷燃烧的选择性。多金属氧酸盐（POMs）在明确定义的结构内的灵活性导致它们被用作广泛酸催化和氧化性有机分子转化的均相和/或非均相催化剂，包括烷烃氧化。Shilov系统等亲电系统的烷烃氧化选择性受不同碳氢键反应性的影响，甲基基团的反应性远高于已经功能化的部位。Shilov系统的机制涉及RH通过Pt(II)的σ复合物和Pt(IV)烷基氢化物的亲电活化，Pt(IV)氧化，以及水在Pt(IV)烷基的α碳上的亲核攻击，失去H+生成醇，Pt(II)作为离去基团。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
