<quotes>

[1] "Some progress in understanding the relationships between catalyst structure and performance has been reported recently for metal oxide-supported vanadia. 78,79 A series of catalysts ranging in V2O5 weight loading from 1% to 15% were prepared and then characterized by X-ray absorption, Raman spectroscopy, UVvisible absorption spectroscopy, and EXAFS. Since calcination at 773 K caused changes in the BET surface area of the samples, which depended on the weight loading of vanadia, the loading of vanadia is expressed in V atoms/nm2. Selective adsorption of CO2 on the zirconia support reveals that up to 1.2 V/nm2, corresponding to 60% coverage of the support, is deposited primarily as monomeric vanadate species. At higher vanadia surface densities, polyvanadates appear, and the surface of the zirconia becomes fully covered by a monolayer of vanadia at a surface density of 7.5 V/nm2. Raman spectroscopy and UVvisible absorption edge energy measurements confirm the progressive growth in the nuclearity of the supported vandia species with increasing vanadia surface loading. Values of the rate coefficients for eqs 911 were determined and examined as a function of vanadia domain size, which correlates with the UVvisible absorption band edge energy. As seen in Figure 5, while the value of k1 increases with increasing domain size, the ratio of k2/k1 decreases and the ratio of k3/k1 is independent of domain size. These results indicate that ODH requires large vanadia domains. Propene combustion also occurs preferentially on large polyvanadate domains, but propane combustion occurs preferentially on smaller domains."

[2] "Polyoxometalates (POMs) have recently emerged as a potentially interesting class of catalysts for the selective oxidation of alkanes and other hydrocarbons. 87-91 Figure 7 shows representative examples of such polyoxometalate anions. The properties of POMs can be varied dramatically by substitution of different metal ions into the anion framework. For example, starting with H3PMo12O40, one can exchange other cations for the protons which serve as countercations, one can substitute other metals such as W, V, and Cu into the framework of the heteropolyanion, and one can use heteroatoms such as Si in place of P. Thus, both the acidity of these materials and the redox properties of the heteropolyanion framework can be varied."

[3] "The considerable flexibility of POMs within a well-defined structure has led to the application of these materials as homogeneous and/or heterogeneous catalysts for a wide range of acid-catalyzed and oxidative conversions of organic molecules. Examples of the applicability of POMs for alkane oxidation include isobutane to methacrolein and methacrylic acid using H3PMo12O40 and vanadium-substituted derivatives, 92-94 oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes using iron-substituted heteropolytungstates and heteropolymolybdates,92,93 propane oxidation to acrylic acid, 95 and methane oxidation to formic acid using PdCs salts of PVMo11O40. 94-96 There is also evidence suggesting that improved activity and selectivity for various metal-catalyzed oxidation processes can be achieved by coupling redox-active metal centers with redox-active POMs. Ordered surface structures consisting of both pure and mixed arrays of polyanions can be produced for catalysis and surface science experiments. The attractiveness of this approach is not only the chemical flexibility that it provides, but also the ability to interrogate the system by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) in order to identify the changes occurring in individual POM units upon reaction."

[4] "The most attractive feature of these electrophilic systems is their selectivity: the reactivity of the methyl group is substantially greater than that of an already functionalized position such as HCH2OH or HCH2SO4H (by as much as 100 times). It is possible by using the Shilov system to effect the remote oxidation of highly flexible linear and branched alkyl chains. The order of reactivity is α-CH  β-CH < γ-CH < δ-CH for alcohols and α-CH  β-CH < γ-CH  δ-CH for carboxylic acids, sulfonic acids, and phosphonic acids. 102 As a consequence of these properties, it is possible to achieve precise control with respect to the extent of oxidation (eq 14). These selectivity patterns suggest that higher alkanes might be sequentially oxidized to α,ω-diols (eq 15) and when coupled to primary alcohol dehydration alkanes to α-olefins (eq 16)."

[5] "The mechanisms of the Shilov system, 103 representing one class of such electrophilic hydroxylation systems, have now been studied extensively, and many of the mechanistic features have been established. 104 The reaction takes place in three stages: (i) electrophilic activation of RH by Pt(II) via a σ complex and a Pt(IV) alkyl hydride that undergoes deprotonations to a Pt(II) alkyl; (ii) oxidation by Pt(IV) to give a Pt(IV) alkyl; (iii) nucleophilic, SN2 attack of water at the α carbon of the latter with loss of H+ to give alcohol with Pt(II) as the leaving group. A key feature of the system is that the first step involves electrophilic attack by Pt(II) at the alkane CH bond, generating a platinum(II) alkyl-polarized Ptδ+Cδ-; following oxidation to platinum (IV) in second step, the bond reverses polarity to Ptδ-Cδ+, becoming susceptible to nucleophilic attack at carbon in step iii."

[6] "A number of significant challenges must be overcome in order to develop catalysts for the selective, energy-efficient oxidation of alkanes to valuable chemical products without large quantities of unwanted byproducts such as CO2. These include the following: (1) identification of the reaction pathways leading to primary and secondary products and determination of the rate coefficients for each path; (2) in situ identification of reactive intermediates; (3) determination of the reactivity of different forms of oxygen present at the catalyst surface and their role in catalyzing desired and undesired oxidation processes; (4) identification of the elementary processes involved in hydrogen abstraction, carboncarbon bond cleavage, and oxygen insertion and the role of redox properties of metal cations in these processes; (5) establishment of the relative reactivities of carbonhydrogen bonds (1, 2, 3, HCH2X (X = OH, halide, etc.) toward soluble transition-metal complexes capable of electrophilic CH bond activation; (6) identification of the mechanisms and requirements for oxidation of Pt(II) alkyls; (7) developing approaches for rapid screening of potential electrophilic transition-metal complexes for selective, catalytic hydrocarbon oxidations under dioxygen; and (8) for new biomimetic catalysts, the development of robust ligands that can withstand oxidizing conditions of the reaction, the design of reaction conditions that maintain low oxidant concentrations to minimize undesirable side reactions such as hydroxy radical formation, and the development of catalysts that utilize O2 as oxidant."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. For example, the size of vanadia domains on metal oxide-supported vanadia catalysts affects the selectivity of oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactions. Large vanadia domains are required for ODH, while smaller domains favor propane combustion. The properties of polyoxometalates (POMs), which can be used as catalysts for alkane oxidation, can be varied by substituting different metal ions into the anion framework, affecting both the acidity of the materials and the redox properties of the heteropolyanion framework. The selectivity of electrophilic systems, such as the Shilov system, for alkane oxidation is influenced by the reactivity of methyl groups compared to already functionalized positions, allowing for precise control over the extent of oxidation. The mechanisms of these systems involve electrophilic activation, oxidation, and nucleophilic attack, with the first step involving electrophilic attack by a metal center at the alkane CH bond. Developing catalysts for selective, energy-efficient oxidation of alkanes to valuable chemical products without large quantities of unwanted byproducts such as CO2 requires overcoming challenges related to identifying reaction pathways, reactive intermediates, the reactivity of different forms of oxygen, and the role of redox properties of metal cations in hydrogen abstraction, carbon-carbon bond cleavage, and oxygen insertion.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的五氧化二钒和金属交换沸石，影响烷烃转化的机制和效率。例如，金属氧化物支撑的五氧化二钒催化剂上五氧化二钒域的大小影响氧化脱氢(ODH)反应的选择性。ODH需要大的五氧化二钒域，而较小的域有利于丙烷燃烧。多金属氧酸盐(POMs)的性质，可以作为烷烃氧化的催化剂，可以通过将不同的金属离子替代到阴离子框架中来改变，影响材料的酸性和杂多阴离子框架的氧化还原性质。亲电系统的选择性，如Shilov系统，受甲基基团与已功能化位置相比的反应性影响，允许对氧化程度进行精确控制。这些系统的机制涉及亲电活化、氧化和亲核攻击，第一步涉及金属中心对烷烃CH键的亲电攻击。为了开发选择性、能效高的催化剂，用于将烷烃氧化为有价值的化学产品，而不产生大量不需要的副产品，如二氧化碳，需要克服与识别反应途径、反应中间体、不同形式的氧的反应性以及金属阳离子的氧化还原性质在氢原子抽提、碳-碳键断裂和氧插入中的作用相关的挑战。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
