<quotes>

[1] "Some progress in understanding the relationships between catalyst structure and performance has been reported recently for metal oxide-supported vanadia. 78,79 A series of catalysts ranging in V2O5 weight loading from 1% to 15% were prepared and then characterized by X-ray absorption, Raman spectroscopy, UVvisible absorption spectroscopy, and EXAFS. Since calcination at 773 K caused changes in the BET surface area of the samples, which depended on the weight loading of vanadia, the loading of vanadia is expressed in V atoms/nm2. Selective adsorption of CO2 on the zirconia support reveals that up to 1.2 V/nm2, corresponding to 60% coverage of the support, is deposited primarily as monomeric vanadate species. At higher vanadia surface densities, polyvanadates appear, and the surface of the zirconia becomes fully covered by a monolayer of vanadia at a surface density of 7.5 V/nm2. Raman spectroscopy and UVvisible absorption edge energy measurements confirm the progressive growth in the nuclearity of the supported vandia species with increasing vanadia surface loading. Values of the rate coefficients for eqs 911 were determined and examined as a function of vanadia domain size, which correlates with the UVvisible absorption band edge energy. As seen in Figure 5, while the value of k1 increases with increasing domain size, the ratio of k2/k1 decreases and the ratio of k3/k1 is independent of domain size. These results indicate that ODH requires large vanadia domains. Propene combustion also occurs preferentially on large polyvanadate domains, but propane combustion occurs preferentially on smaller domains."

[2] "Polyoxometalates (POMs) have recently emerged as a potentially interesting class of catalysts for the selective oxidation of alkanes and other hydrocarbons. 87-91 Figure 7 shows representative examples of such polyoxometalate anions. The properties of POMs can be varied dramatically by substitution of different metal ions into the anion framework. For example, starting with H3PMo12O40, one can exchange other cations for the protons which serve as countercations, one can substitute other metals such as W, V, and Cu into the framework of the heteropolyanion, and one can use heteroatoms such as Si in place of P. Thus, both the acidity of these materials and the redox properties of the heteropolyanion framework can be varied."

[3] "The considerable flexibility of POMs within a well-defined structure has led to the application of these materials as homogeneous and/or heterogeneous catalysts for a wide range of acid-catalyzed and oxidative conversions of organic molecules. Examples of the applicability of POMs for alkane oxidation include isobutane to methacrolein and methacrylic acid using H3PMo12O40 and vanadium-substituted derivatives, 92-94 oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes using iron-substituted heteropolytungstates and heteropolymolybdates,92,93 propane oxidation to acrylic acid, 95 and methane oxidation to formic acid using PdCs salts of PVMo11O40. 94-96 There is also evidence suggesting that improved activity and selectivity for various metal-catalyzed oxidation processes can be achieved by coupling redox-active metal centers with redox-active POMs. Ordered surface structures consisting of both pure and mixed arrays of polyanions can be produced for catalysis and surface science experiments. The attractiveness of this approach is not only the chemical flexibility that it provides, but also the ability to interrogate the system by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) in order to identify the changes occurring in individual POM units upon reaction."

[4] "The most attractive feature of these electrophilic systems is their selectivity: the reactivity of the methyl group is substantially greater than that of an already functionalized position such as HCH2OH or HCH2SO4H (by as much as 100 times). It is possible by using the Shilov system to effect the remote oxidation of highly flexible linear and branched alkyl chains. The order of reactivity is α-CH  β-CH < γ-CH < δ-CH for alcohols and α-CH  β-CH < γ-CH  δ-CH for carboxylic acids, sulfonic acids, and phosphonic acids. 102 As a consequence of these properties, it is possible to achieve precise control with respect to the extent of oxidation (eq 14). These selectivity patterns suggest that higher alkanes might be sequentially oxidized to α,ω-diols (eq 15) and when coupled to primary alcohol dehydration alkanes to α-olefins (eq 16)."

[5] "By comparison, the autoxidation of isobutane to TBA can be carried out in the presence of [meso-tetrakispentafluorophenyl-β-octachloroporphyrin]iron(III) hydroxide at room temperature, giving TBA in 95% selectivity with very little CC bond cleavage.110c Industrially acceptable rates can be achieved at 80 C while maintaining 90% selectivity at a 50% conversion level. No hydroperoxide build up can be detected. The reason for not observing TBHP in crude reaction products and for accelerated reaction rates using these electron-deficient metalloporphyrin complexes is their extremely high activity for decomposing hydroperoxides, acting as living initiators that continuously provide high radical flux at low reaction temperatures."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. For example, the size of vanadia domains on metal oxide-supported vanadia catalysts affects the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes. Larger vanadia domains are required for oxidative dehydrogenation, while smaller domains favor propane combustion. The properties of polyoxometalates (POMs) can also be varied by substituting different metal ions into the anion framework, which can alter the acidity and redox properties of the catalyst. This flexibility allows POMs to be used as both homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts for a wide range of acid-catalyzed and oxidative conversions of organic molecules. The selectivity of electrophilic systems, such as the Shilov system, is another factor that influences the efficiency of alkane transformations. The reactivity of the methyl group is substantially greater than that of already functionalized positions, allowing for precise control over the extent of oxidation. Electron-deficient metalloporphyrin complexes also exhibit high activity for decomposing hydroperoxides, which can accelerate reaction rates and improve selectivity in the autoxidation of alkanes.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的五氧化二钒和金属交换沸石，影响烷烃转化的机理和效率。例如，金属氧化物支撑的五氧化二钒催化剂上五氧化二钒域的大小影响烷烃的氧化脱氢。较大的五氧化二钒域对于氧化脱氢是必要的，而较小的域则有利于丙烷的燃烧。多金属氧酸盐（POMs）的性质也可以通过将不同的金属离子替换到阴离子框架中来改变，这可以改变催化剂的酸性和氧化还原性质。这种灵活性使得POMs可以作为广泛的酸催化和氧化性有机分子转化的均相和非均相催化剂。电亲性系统的选择性，如Shilov系统，是另一个影响烷烃转化效率的因素。甲基基团的反应性远高于已经功能化的位点，这使得可以精确控制氧化的程度。电子缺乏的金属卟啉复合物在分解过氧化氢方面也表现出高活性，这可以加速反应速率并提高烷烃自氧化的选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
