<quotes>

[1] "Some progress in understanding the relationships between catalyst structure and performance has been reported recently for metal oxide-supported vanadia. 78,79 A series of catalysts ranging in V2O5 weight loading from 1% to 15% were prepared and then characterized by X-ray absorption, Raman spectroscopy, UVvisible absorption spectroscopy, and EXAFS. Since calcination at 773 K caused changes in the BET surface area of the samples, which depended on the weight loading of vanadia, the loading of vanadia is expressed in V atoms/nm2. Selective adsorption of CO2 on the zirconia support reveals that up to 1.2 V/nm2, corresponding to 60% coverage of the support, is deposited primarily as monomeric vanadate species. At higher vanadia surface densities, polyvanadates appear, and the surface of the zirconia becomes fully covered by a monolayer of vanadia at a surface density of 7.5 V/nm2. Raman spectroscopy and UVvisible absorption edge energy measurements confirm the progressive growth in the nuclearity of the supported vandia species with increasing vanadia surface loading. Values of the rate coefficients for eqs 911 were determined and examined as a function of vanadia domain size, which correlates with the UVvisible absorption band edge energy. As seen in Figure 5, while the value of k1 increases with increasing domain size, the ratio of k2/k1 decreases and the ratio of k3/k1 is independent of domain size. These results indicate that ODH requires large vanadia domains. Propene combustion also occurs preferentially on large polyvanadate domains, but propane combustion occurs preferentially on smaller domains."

[2] "While many oxide catalysts exhibit high alkene selectivity (e.g., >80%) at very low alkane conversion levels, all show a decrease in alkene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion. For supported metal oxides, it has been observed empirically that the decline in olefin selectivity with increasing alkane conversion decreases with increasing basicity of the support."

[3] "Polyoxometalates (POMs) have recently emerged as a potentially interesting class of catalysts for the selective oxidation of alkanes and other hydrocarbons. 87-91 Figure 7 shows representative examples of such polyoxometalate anions. The properties of POMs can be varied dramatically by substitution of different metal ions into the anion framework. For example, starting with H3PMo12O40, one can exchange other cations for the protons which serve as countercations, one can substitute other metals such as W, V, and Cu into the framework of the heteropolyanion, and one can use heteroatoms such as Si in place of P. Thus, both the acidity of these materials and the redox properties of the heteropolyanion framework can be varied."

[4] "The considerable flexibility of POMs within a well-defined structure has led to the application of these materials as homogeneous and/or heterogeneous catalysts for a wide range of acid-catalyzed and oxidative conversions of organic molecules. Examples of the applicability of POMs for alkane oxidation include isobutane to methacrolein and methacrylic acid using H3PMo12O40 and vanadium-substituted derivatives, 92-94 oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes using iron-substituted heteropolytungstates and heteropolymolybdates,92,93 propane oxidation to acrylic acid, 95 and methane oxidation to formic acid using PdCs salts of PVMo11O40. 94-96 There is also evidence suggesting that improved activity and selectivity for various metal-catalyzed oxidation processes can be achieved by coupling redox-active metal centers with redox-active POMs. Ordered surface structures consisting of both pure and mixed arrays of polyanions can be produced for catalysis and surface science experiments. The attractiveness of this approach is not only the chemical flexibility that it provides, but also the ability to interrogate the system by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) in order to identify the changes occurring in individual POM units upon reaction."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, have a significant influence on the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. For instance, the decline in olefin selectivity with increasing alkane conversion decreases with increasing basicity of the support for supported metal oxides. The size of vanadia domains on metal oxide-supported vanadia catalysts affects the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) process, with large domains favoring ODH and propene combustion, while smaller domains favor propane combustion. Polyoxometalates (POMs) have emerged as a class of catalysts for the selective oxidation of alkanes, with their properties varying dramatically by substitution of different metal ions into the anion framework, allowing for the adjustment of acidity and redox properties. These catalysts have been applied in various acid-catalyzed and oxidative conversions of organic molecules, including alkane oxidation, due to their chemical flexibility and the ability to interrogate individual POM units using scanning tunneling microscopy.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂（包括负载的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石）的组成、结构和反应条件对烷烃转化的机理和效率有重大影响。例如，对于负载金属氧化物，随着支撑物碱性的增加，随着烷烃转化率的增加，烯烃选择性的下降减少。在金属氧化物负载的钒氧化物催化剂上，钒氧化物域的大小影响氧化脱氢（ODH）过程，大域有利于ODH和丙烯燃烧，而小域有利于丙烷燃烧。多金属氧酸盐（POMs）作为一类催化剂，用于选择性氧化烷烃，通过将不同的金属离子替代到阴离子框架中，其性质会发生巨大变化，允许调整酸性和氧化还原性质。这些催化剂由于其化学灵活性和能够使用扫描隧道显微镜检查单个POM单元的能力，已被应用于各种酸催化的有机分子氧化转化，包括烷烃氧化。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
