<quotes>

[1] "In many cases, these unique properties result in activities and/or selectivities that exceed those achievable with a monometallic catalyst."
[2] "For this reason, there have been many fundamental experimental and theoretical studies of the novel properties of well-defined bimetallic surfaces."
[3] "To study the modification effects on surface chemistry due to bimetallic formation, a monolayer film of one metal can be deposited onto a single-crystal substrate of another metal."
[4] "Lattice mismatch results in the contraction or expansion of adlayer metalmetal bond length compared with that of the bulk metal, leading to a modification of the surface electronic properties due to the strain effect."
[5] "In addition, the formation of heterometallic bonds further alters the electronic properties of the surface, which is often referred to as the ligand effect."
[6] "One useful parameter to describe the changes in the electronic properties of bimetallic surfaces is the position of the surface d-band center with respect to the Fermi level."
[7] "This parameter has been shown to strongly correlate with the ability of bimetallic surfaces to bind with small adsorbates, such as atomic hydrogen and oxygen."
[8] "In addition, activation barriers to such reactions as ethylene and maleic anhydride hydrogenation also have been correlated with the surface d-band center."
[9] "Thus, its determination may enable first-principles predictions of bimetallic surfaces with desirable catalytic properties for reactions involving these molecules."
[10] "In the present work, a combination of density functional theory (DFT) modeling and surface science experiments was used to study the effects of bimetallic formation on the binding of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, as well as on the low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene."
[11] "This was done by modifying Pt(111) with several 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu."
[12] "Depositing these metals on a Pt(111) single-crystal surface at room temperature was found to result in the formation of a surface monolayer of the 3d metals; these surfaces are designated as 3d-Pt-Pt(111)."
[13] "At elevated temperatures, the formation of a surface alloy is observed for each Pt-3d pair."
[14] "These surface alloys have been shown to be enriched in Pt in the first atomic layer due to the enthalpic driving potential created by the lower surface energy of Pt compared with the 3d metals under consideration."
[15] "Strain also may play a part in the interdiffusion of the Pt and 3d metals, because elastic strain is reduced by having the larger Pt atoms in the topmost atomic layer."
[16] "These Pt-enriched bimetallic surfaces are designated Pt-3d-Pt(111) in this study."
[17] "Kitchin et al. studied Ni modification of Pt(111) and found that surface Ni shifts the surface d-band center closer to the Fermi level in comparison to Ni(111), whereas subsurface Ni in the second atomic layer moves the d-band center away from the Fermi level."
[18] "The current study extends these findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research. The unique properties of bimetallic surfaces often result in activities and selectivities that exceed those of monometallic catalysts. Fundamental experimental and theoretical studies have been conducted to explore the novel properties of well-defined bimetallic surfaces. A monolayer film of one metal can be deposited onto a single-crystal substrate of another metal to study the modification effects on surface chemistry due to bimetallic formation. Lattice mismatch leads to a modification of the surface electronic properties due to the strain effect, and the formation of heterometallic bonds further alters the electronic properties of the surface, known as the ligand effect. The position of the surface d-band center with respect to the Fermi level is a useful parameter to describe the changes in the electronic properties of bimetallic surfaces, which has been shown to correlate with the ability of bimetallic surfaces to bind with small adsorbates and activation barriers to reactions. Determination of the surface d-band center may enable first-principles predictions of bimetallic surfaces with desirable catalytic properties. In the present work, a combination of DFT modeling and surface science experiments was used to study the effects of bimetallic formation on the binding of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, as well as on the low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene. Pt(111) was modified with several 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu. Depositing these metals on a Pt(111) single-crystal surface at room temperature resulted in the formation of a surface monolayer of the 3d metals, designated as 3d-Pt-Pt(111). At elevated temperatures, the formation of a surface alloy was observed for each Pt-3d pair, enriched in Pt in the first atomic layer due to the enthalpic driving potential created by the lower surface energy of Pt compared with the 3d metals under consideration. Strain may play a part in the interdiffusion of the Pt and 3d metals, and these Pt-enriched bimetallic surfaces are designated Pt-3d-Pt(111) in this study. Kitchin et al. studied Ni modification of Pt(111) and found that surface Ni shifts the surface d-band center closer to the Fermi level in comparison to Ni(111), whereas subsurface Ni in the second atomic layer moves the d-band center away from the Fermi level. The current study extends these findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在Ni/Pt双金属表面的表征中，通过在Pt(111)单晶或多晶Pt基底上沉积Ni单层，这对于结构建模、DFT计算以及我们对这些双金属表面在高级表面科学和催化研究背景下的电子和化学性质的全面理解至关重要。双金属表面的独特性质通常导致活性和选择性超过单金属催化剂。已经进行了许多基础实验和理论研究，以探索定义良好的双金属表面的新型性质。为了研究双金属形成对表面化学的修改效应，可以在另一种金属的单晶基底上沉积一层金属薄膜。晶格失配导致由于应变效应，表面电子性质的修改，而异金属键的形成进一步改变了表面的电子性质，这通常被称为配体效应。描述双金属表面电子性质变化的一个有用参数是表面d带中心相对于费米能级的位置。已经表明，双金属表面与小吸附物结合的能力与双金属表面的表面d带中心位置密切相关。此外，乙烯和马来酸酐氢化等反应的活化能垒也与表面d带中心相关。因此，确定表面d带中心可能使我们能够从第一原理预测具有所需催化性质的双金属表面，用于涉及这些分子的反应。在本研究中，结合密度泛函理论(DFT)建模和表面科学实验，研究了双金属形成对原子氢和环己烯结合以及环己烯低温氢化的影响。通过在Pt(111)上修饰几种3d过渡金属，包括Fe、Co、Ni和Cu，来实现这一点。在室温下将这些金属沉积在Pt(111)单晶表面上，发现形成了3d金属的表面单层；这些表面被指定为3d-Pt-Pt(111)。在较高温度下，观察到每个Pt-3d对的表面合金的形成，由于与考虑的3d金属相比，Pt的表面能较低，因此在第一原子层中Pt的含量较高。应变也可能在Pt和3d金属的相互扩散中发挥作用，因为较大的Pt原子在最上层原子层中可以减少弹性应变。这些Pt富集的双金属表面在本研究中被指定为Pt-3d-Pt(111)。Kitchin等人研究了Ni对Pt(111)的改性，发现表面Ni与Ni(111)相比，将表面d带中心移近费米能级，而第二原子层中的子表面Ni将d带中心移离费米能级。本研究将这些发现扩展到Fe、Co和Cu改性的Pt(111)表面。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
