<quotes>

[1] "In many cases, these unique properties result in activities and/or selectivities that exceed those achievable with a monometallic catalyst."
[2] "For this reason, there have been many fundamental experimental and theoretical studies of the novel properties of well-defined bimetallic surfaces."
[3] "To study the modification effects on surface chemistry due to bimetallic formation, a monolayer film of one metal can be deposited onto a single-crystal substrate of another metal."
[4] "Lattice mismatch results in the contraction or expansion of adlayer metalmetal bond length compared with that of the bulk metal, leading to a modification of the surface electronic properties due to the strain effect."
[5] "In addition, the formation of heterometallic bonds further alters the electronic properties of the surface, which is often referred to as the ligand effect."
[6] "One useful parameter to describe the changes in the electronic properties of bimetallic surfaces is the position of the surface d-band center with respect to the Fermi level."
[7] "This parameter has been shown to strongly correlate with the ability of bimetallic surfaces to bind with small adsorbates, such as atomic hydrogen and oxygen."
[8] "Thus, its determination may enable first-principles predictions of bimetallic surfaces with desirable catalytic properties for reactions involving these molecules."
[9] "In the present work, a combination of density functional theory (DFT) modeling and surface science experiments was used to study the effects of bimetallic formation on the binding of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, as well as on the low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene."
[10] "This was done by modifying Pt(111) with several 3d transition metals, including Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu."
[11] "Depositing these metals on a Pt(111) single-crystal surface at room temperature was found to result in the formation of a surface monolayer of the 3d metals; these surfaces are designated as 3d-Pt-Pt(111)."
[12] "At elevated temperatures, the formation of a surface alloy is observed for each Pt-3d pair."
[13] "These surface alloys have been shown to be enriched in Pt in the first atomic layer due to the enthalpic driving potential created by the lower surface energy of Pt compared with the 3d metals under consideration."
[14] "Strain also may play a part in the interdiffusion of the Pt and 3d metals, because elastic strain is reduced by having the larger Pt atoms in the topmost atomic layer."
[15] "These Pt-enriched bimetallic surfaces are designated Pt-3d-Pt(111) in this study."
[16] "Kitchin et al. studied Ni modification of Pt(111) and found that surface Ni shifts the surface d-band center closer to the Fermi level in comparison to Ni(111), whereas subsurface Ni in the second atomic layer moves the d-band center away from the Fermi level."
[17] "The current study extends these findings to Fe-, Co-, and Cu-modified Pt(111) surfaces."
[18] "Cyclohexene can undergo decomposition, dehydrogenation, and self-hydrogenation (disproportionation) reactions, as well as hydrogenation in the presence of co-adsorbed atomic hydrogen."
[19] "Due to the competitive nature of these reaction pathways, it is an ideal probe molecule for comparing the general trends in the chemical properties of the various bimetallic surfaces."
[20] "On Pt(111), cyclohexene undergoes dehydrogenation and decomposition."
[21] "However, when Pt(111) is modified with another metal, the dominant reaction pathways can vary markedly."
[22] "For example, modification with Sn can promote reversible adsorption, making molecular desorption the dominant pathway."
[23] "Previous studies on 3d-modified Pt(111) have shown that the subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures exhibit a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway."
[24] "Similar results were observed in the current study for the Pt-Fe-Pt(111) surface; however, the Pt-Cu-Pt(111) surface did not exhibit the same hydrogenation pathway."
[25] "Furthermore, the current study also investigated the hydrogenation pathway on the four 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces and found that this pathway did not occur on these surface structures because of the strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen."
[26] "The combined experimental results and DFT modeling allow us to establish a volcano-type relationship between the binding energies and hydrogenation activities among the various 3d/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, is conducted through a combination of experimental and theoretical methods. This process is crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research because it allows for the study of the modification effects on surface chemistry due to bimetallic formation. Lattice mismatch leads to changes in the surface electronic properties due to the strain effect, and the formation of heterometallic bonds further alters these properties, known as the ligand effect. The position of the surface d-band center with respect to the Fermi level is a useful parameter to describe these changes, which correlates with the ability of bimetallic surfaces to bind with small adsorbates. This information enables first-principles predictions of bimetallic surfaces with desirable catalytic properties for reactions involving these molecules. In the current work, DFT modeling and surface science experiments were used to study the effects of bimetallic formation on the binding of atomic hydrogen and cyclohexene, as well as on the low-temperature hydrogenation of cyclohexene. Depositing 3d transition metals on a Pt(111) single-crystal surface at room temperature results in the formation of a surface monolayer, while at elevated temperatures, a surface alloy is observed. These surface alloys are enriched in Pt in the first atomic layer due to the enthalpic driving potential created by the lower surface energy of Pt compared with the 3d metals. Strain plays a part in the interdiffusion of the Pt and 3d metals, and the larger Pt atoms in the topmost atomic layer reduce elastic strain. The Pt-enriched bimetallic surfaces are designated Pt-3d-Pt(111) in this study. Cyclohexene is an ideal probe molecule for comparing the general trends in the chemical properties of the various bimetallic surfaces due to the competitive nature of its reaction pathways. Previous studies have shown that subsurface Pt-Ni-Pt(111) and Pt-Co-Pt(111) structures exhibit a novel low-temperature hydrogenation pathway, and similar results were observed in the current study for the Pt-Fe-Pt(111) surface. However, the Pt-Cu-Pt(111) surface did not exhibit the same hydrogenation pathway. The hydrogenation pathway did not occur on the 3d-Pt-Pt(111) surfaces due to the strong binding of cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen. The combined experimental results and DFT modeling allow for the establishment of a volcano-type relationship between the binding energies and hydrogenation activities among the various 3d/Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. Ni/Pt双金属表面的表征，通过在Pt(111)单晶或多晶Pt基底上沉积Ni单层制备，是通过实验和理论方法的结合进行的。这一过程对于结构建模、DFT计算以及我们对这些双金属表面在高级表面科学和催化研究背景下的电子和化学性质的全面理解至关重要，因为它允许研究由于双金属形成对表面化学的修改效应。晶格失配导致由于应变效应表面电子性质的变化，而异金属键的形成进一步改变了这些性质，通常被称为配位效应。描述双金属表面电子性质变化的一个有用参数是表面d带中心相对于费米能级的位置，这与双金属表面结合小吸附物（如原子氢和氧）的能力密切相关。这一信息使我们能够对涉及这些分子的反应具有理想催化性质的双金属表面进行第一原理预测。在当前的工作中，DFT建模和表面科学实验被用来研究双金属形成对原子氢和环己烯结合以及环己烯低温氢化的影响。在室温下将3d过渡金属沉积在Pt(111)单晶表面上，结果形成3d金属的表面单层，而在较高温度下，观察到表面合金的形成。这些表面合金在第一原子层中富含Pt，这是由于与考虑的3d金属相比，Pt的表面能较低所造成的焓驱动势。应变在Pt和3d金属的互扩散中起作用，而顶层较大的Pt原子减少了弹性应变。这些Pt富集的双金属表面在本研究中被指定为Pt-3d-Pt(111)。由于环己烯反应途径的竞争性质，它是一种理想的探针分子，用于比较各种双金属表面化学性质的一般趋势。先前的研究表明，次表面Pt-Ni-Pt(111)和Pt-Co-Pt(111)结构表现出一种新的低温氢化途径，而在当前的研究中，对于Pt-Fe-Pt(111)表面观察到了类似的结果。然而，Pt-Cu-Pt(111)表面没有表现出相同的氢化途径。由于环己烯和原子氢的强结合，氢化途径没有发生在3d-Pt-Pt(111)表面上。实验结果和DFT建模的结合使我们能够在各种3d/Pt(111)双金属表面之间建立结合能和氢化活性的火山型关系。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
