<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          No relevant quotes
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by acting as Lewis acid sites that can stabilize the transition state of C-H bond activation reactions. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from an organic molecule by a metal oxide surface, forming a metal-hydrogen bond and a carbon-centered radical. The H-abstraction mechanism involves the direct abstraction of a hydrogen atom from an organic molecule by a metal center, forming a metal-hydrogen bond and a carbon-centered radical. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by using metal oxide catalysts that contain isolated metal centers that can activate C-H bonds and facilitate the selective oxidation of alkanes to more valuable products.
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by acting as Lewis acid sites that stabilize the transition state for C-H bond cleavage. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the metal center undergoing redox cycling between oxidized and reduced states, while the H-abstraction mechanism involves direct hydrogen atom transfer from the C-H bond to the metal center. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by using supported metal catalysts that can activate the C-H bonds selectively while minimizing over-oxidation to CO2. The metal centers promote the formation of reactive oxygen species that can oxidize the alkane to the desired product.
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by acting as Lewis acid sites that can coordinate and activate hydrocarbon molecules. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from the hydrocarbon, forming a metal-hydrogen bond and leaving behind a carbon-centered radical. This radical can then react further to form the desired products. In the H-abstraction mechanism, the metal center directly abstracts a hydrogen atom, forming a metal-hydrogen bond and a carbon-centered cation. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by using metal-oxide catalysts that can activate the C-H bonds selectively and promote the desired oxidation reactions.
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by serving as Lewis acid sites that stabilize the transition state of C-H bond activation reactions. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from an organic substrate by a metal oxide lattice oxygen, forming a metal-oxo intermediate. The H-abstraction mechanism involves direct hydrogen atom abstraction by the metal center. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by using supported metal oxide catalysts with isolated metal centers that can activate C-H bonds selectively.
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by serving as active sites for hydrogen abstraction or by stabilizing transition states for C-H bond cleavage. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the metal center undergoing redox cycling between oxidation states, while the H-abstraction mechanism involves direct hydrogen atom transfer from the C-H bond to the metal center. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by carefully controlling the metal type, support, and reaction conditions to achieve high selectivity for the desired product.
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by serving as active sites for hydrogen abstraction reactions. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the transfer of oxygen from the oxide lattice to the organic substrate, followed by the regeneration of the oxide lattice through the incorporation of lattice oxygen. H-abstraction mechanisms involve the direct removal of hydrogen atoms from the organic substrate by the metal center, leading to the formation of reactive intermediates that can undergo further oxidation. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by using metal-oxide catalysts that promote the selective oxidation of specific carbon-hydrogen bonds while minimizing the formation of undesired byproducts.
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by acting as Lewis acid sites that stabilize the transition state for C-H bond activation. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from an organic substrate by a metal oxide lattice oxygen, forming a metal-oxo intermediate. The H-abstraction mechanism involves direct hydrogen atom abstraction by the metal center. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by using supported metal oxide catalysts with isolated metal centers that can activate C-H bonds selectively.
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials can facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by serving as active sites for hydrogen abstraction reactions. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the transfer of oxygen from the oxide lattice to the organic substrate, followed by the regeneration of the oxide lattice through the incorporation of lattice oxygen. H-abstraction mechanisms involve the direct removal of hydrogen atoms from the organic substrate by the metal center, leading to the formation of reactive intermediates that can undergo further oxidation. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by using metal-oxide catalysts that promote the selective oxidation of specific carbon-hydrogen bonds while minimizing the formation of undesired byproducts.
          Isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis by acting as Lewis acid sites that can stabilize the transition state of the reaction. The Mars van Krevelen mechanism involves the metal center abstracting a hydrogen atom from the hydrocarbon, forming a metal hydride and a carbon-centered radical. This radical can then react with an oxygen molecule to form a peroxo intermediate, which subsequently decomposes to form the desired product. In the H-abstraction mechanism, the metal center directly abstracts a hydrogen atom from the hydrocarbon, forming a metal hydride and a carbocation. This carbocation can then react with an oxygen molecule to form the desired product. These principles are applied in the industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, such as the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, by using a catalyst with isolated metal centers that can selectively activate the C-H bonds of the alkane and promote the desired oxidation reaction.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          孤立的金属中心在氧化物材料上通过充当路易斯酸位点，稳定C-H键活化反应的过渡态，从而促进异相催化中的C-H键活化。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及金属氧化物表面从有机分子中抽氢，形成金属-氢键和碳中心自由基。H-抽氢机制涉及金属中心直接从有机分子中抽氢，形成金属-氢键和碳中心自由基。这些原理应用于工业选择性氧化烷烃，例如丁烷转化为马来酸酐，通过使用含有孤立金属中心的金属氧化物催化剂，这些中心可以活化C-H键，促进烷烃选择性氧化为更有价值的产品。
          孤立的金属中心在氧化物材料上可以通过充当路易斯酸位点来促进C-H键在异相催化中的活化，稳定C-H键裂解的过渡态。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及金属中心在氧化态和还原态之间进行氧化还原循环，而H-抽象机制涉及C-H键直接向金属中心转移氢原子。这些原理被应用于工业选择性氧化烷烃，例如使用支撑金属催化剂将丁烷转化为马来酸酐，这些催化剂可以选择性地活化C-H键，同时最大限度地减少氧化为CO2的过度氧化。金属中心促进形成可以将烷烃氧化为所需产物的活性氧物种。
          孤立的金属中心在氧化物材料上通过充当路易斯酸位点来促进异相催化中的C-H键活化，这些位点可以配位和活化烃分子。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及从烃中抽离一个氢原子，形成金属-氢键，留下一个碳中心的自由基。这个自由基然后可以进一步反应形成所需的产品。在H-抽离机制中，金属中心直接抽离一个氢原子，形成金属-氢键和一个碳中心的阳离子。这些原理被应用于工业选择性氧化烷烃，例如丁烷转化为马来酸酐，通过使用可以有选择地活化C-H键并促进所需氧化反应的金属氧化物催化剂。
          氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过充当路易斯酸位点来促进异相催化中的C-H键活化，稳定C-H键活化反应的过渡态。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及从有机基质中抽象氢原子，形成金属-氧中间体。H-抽象机制涉及金属中心直接抽象氢原子。这些原理应用于工业选择性氧化烷烃，例如使用具有孤立金属中心的负载金属氧化物催化剂将丁烷转化为马来酸酐，这些孤立金属中心可以选择性地活化C-H键。
          在多相催化中，氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过充当氢原子抽提的活性位点或稳定C-H键断裂的过渡态，促进C-H键的活化。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及金属中心在氧化态之间进行氧化还原循环，而H-抽提机制涉及C-H键直接向金属中心转移氢原子。这些原理被应用于工业上选择性氧化烷烃，例如丁烷转化为马来酸酐，通过仔细控制金属类型、载体和反应条件，以实现对所需产物的高选择性。
          在多相催化中，氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过充当氢原子抽提反应的活性位点来促进C-H键的活化。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及从氧化物晶格向有机底物转移氧，随后通过掺入晶格氧来再生氧化物晶格。H-抽提机制涉及金属中心直接从有机底物中移除氢原子，形成可以进一步氧化的反应中间体。这些原理被应用于工业上选择性氧化烷烃，例如使用促进特定碳-氢键选择性氧化的金属氧化物催化剂，同时最小化不希望的副产物的形成，将丁烷转化为马来酸酐。
          氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过充当路易斯酸位点来促进异相催化中的C-H键活化，稳定C-H键活化的过渡态。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及从有机基质中抽象氢原子，形成金属-氧中间体。H-抽象机制涉及金属中心直接抽象氢原子。这些原理应用于工业选择性氧化烷烃，例如使用具有孤立金属中心的负载金属氧化物催化剂将丁烷转化为马来酸酐，这些孤立金属中心可以选择性地活化C-H键。
          在多相催化中，氧化物材料上的孤立金属中心可以通过充当氢原子抽提反应的活性位点来促进C-H键的活化。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及从氧化物晶格向有机底物转移氧，随后通过掺入晶格氧来再生氧化物晶格。H-抽提机制涉及金属中心直接从有机底物中移除氢原子，形成可以进一步氧化的反应中间体。这些原理被应用于工业上选择性氧化烷烃，例如使用促进特定碳-氢键选择性氧化的金属氧化物催化剂，同时最小化不希望的副产物的形成，将丁烷转化为马来酸酐。
          孤立的金属中心在氧化物材料上通过充当路易斯酸位点来促进异质催化中的C-H键活化，这些位点可以稳定反应的过渡态。Mars van Krevelen机制涉及金属中心从烃中抽象一个氢原子，形成金属氢化物和一个碳中心的自由基。这个自由基然后可以与一个氧分子反应，形成一个过氧中间体，随后分解形成所需的产品。在H-抽象机制中，金属中心直接从烃中抽象一个氢原子，形成金属氢化物和一个碳正离子。这个碳正离子然后可以与一个氧分子反应，形成所需的产品。这些原理被应用于工业选择性氧化烷烃，例如丁烷转化为马来酸酐，通过使用具有孤立金属中心的催化剂，这些中心可以选择性地活化烷烃的C-H键，并促进所需的氧化反应。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
