I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


3.1.2. Direct Synthesis Method
The encapsulation of metal sites within zeolites along with their crystallization (i.e., direct synthesis procedure) is promising to avoid the superficial metal species in postsynthesis procedure. However, the time-scale mismatch between the fast metal precipitation and the slow zeolite crystallization still causes challenges for effective encapsulation (Figure 5a). (22) To address this issue, Yu et al. (22) developed an ultrafast zeolite crystallization strategy based on the combination of precursor age, seed additives, and fast-heating tubular reactor (Figure 5b). The XRD spectra reveal that complete crystallization (i.e., relative crystallinity of 100%) of ZSM-5 zeolites could be achieved within a 5 min reaction at 170 C. Further increasing the reaction temperature to 190 C can reduce the crystallization time to 2 min. Benefiting from the ultrafast crystallization rate, the PtSn clusters can be fully encapsulated within ZSM-5 zeolites. Inductively coupled plasma (ICP) data show that the Pt loadings in silica matrix increase with increasing zeolite crystallinity, which evidence the formation of Pt nanoclusters and show that the crystallization of ZSM-5 proceeds in the same ultrafast pace. In comparison, the Sn species were fully grafted into the silica matrix at the initial synthesis stage. Ultravioletvisible light diffuse reflectance (UVvis DR) spectra reveal that the Sn species initially transform into amorphous SnO2, which subsequently transform into the Td Sn species within the zeolite framework and help improve the Pt dispersion. When fixing the Pt loading at 0.32 wt % and increasing Sn loadings from 0 to 1.2 wt %, the size of PtSn clusters decreases from 4 nm to 1 nm. The optimized PtSn-ZSM-5 catalyst exhibits initial propane conversion of 65%, which is much higher than that of impregnated Pt/Sn-ZSM-5.
In addition to accelerating the zeolite crystallization rate, slowing down the precipitation rate of metal ions with the assistance of ligand additives is more serviceable to encapsulate highly dispersed metal/oxide sites within the zeolite matrix along with crystallization (Figure 5c).
Yus group (23) reported a ligand-assisted direct H2 reduction strategy to encapsulate subnanometric PtZn clusters within the S-1 matrix. Ethylenediamine was used as the protecting ligand to prevent Pt and Zn ions from aggregation in the alkaline hydrothermal precursor, which slows down the precipitation of PtZn to match the zeolite crystallization rate in a time scale. Moreover, the direct H2 reduction of hydrothermal products also benefits the PtZn dispersion compared to that of the conventional calcination-reduction procedure. The optimized PtZn4@S-1-H catalyst consists of ultrasmall PtZn clusters (1.4 nm, Figure 5d) and obtains a propylene productivity of 65.5 molC3H6·gPt1·h1 (propane WHSV = 108 h1) with a propylene selectivity of 99.3% at 550 C (Figure 5e). This PtZn4@S-1-H is also highly stable throughout a 220 h stability test, which is attributed to the unique antisintering and antireduction capacity of encapsulated PtZn clusters. Besides, the Cs+ additives help to avoid metal migration and aggregation, which further improves the regeneration stability of the catalyst. As the reference materials, the Pt@S-1-H and PtZn4@S-1-C (treated by conventional calcination-reduction process) exhibit a lower propylene selectivity of 80% and fast deactivation during 6 h of the PDH reaction.
Liu et al. (24) encapsulated K-PtSn species (single atom and clusters) within S-1 zeolites through a similar one-pot hydrothermal process with ethylenediamine as the ligands. The K additives condense the SiOH defects to form the (O2K+) species, which stabilize the positively charged Pt species. As a result, the Pt particle size decreases from 4 nm (PtSn@MFI) to 0.9 nm (K-PtSn@MFI). The PtSn species in K-PtSn@MFI catalyst exist as an interfacial Pt-SnOx structure, instead of PtSn alloy. Particularly, the metal species were directly observed by using the advanced integrated differential phase contrast (iDPC) technique. For noncalcined K-PtSn@MFI catalyst (i.e., after hydrothermal reaction), Pt species mainly locate in the sinusoidal 10-MR channels, which was because (1) the sinusoidal channels were larger than the straight channels; (2) the intersectional voids were mainly occupied by the TPA+ templates. On the contrary, although the Pt-SnOx species in impregnated K-PtSn/MFI were highly dispersed with a Pt particle size of 0.41.2 nm, they are distributed randomly in the S-1 zeolites. For the PDH reaction, the sinusoidal channel encapsulated Pt-SnOx sites (in K-PtSn@MFI) exhibit an initial propane conversion of 65% and gradually decrease to 50% during the 65 h test. No obvious sintering was observed for spent K-PtSn@MFI. In comparison, the randomly distributed Pt-SnOx sites (in K- PtSn/MFI) exhibit fast deactivation from 50% to 20% during 15 h of reaction. The structural evolution of K-PtSn active sites during H2 prereduction and its influence on PDH activity were further investigated in another work. (35) The K, Pt, and Sn species in noncalcined K-PtSn@MFI (after hydrothermal) were dispersed in the sinusoidal channels of S-1 zeolites. After reduction at 400 C, all Pt4+ species would be reduced to metallic Pt0 and exist as subnanometric Pt clusters, while only a small amount of Sn4+ was reduced to Sn2+. When the reduction was carried out at 600 C for 1 h, most of the Sn4+ species would transform into Sn2+, but the as-formed Sn2+ species still separate from the Pt clusters. After the reduction time was prolonged to 12 h, part of the Sn2+ species would migrate toward Pt clusters to produce PtSn alloys, which were stabilized by framework Sn sites. For the K-PtSn@MFI catalysts with various H2-reduction durations from 0 to 22 h at 600 C, their initial propylene productivity was comparable, while the deactivation rate decreases from 0.12 to 0.01 h1 with a prolonged reduction time.After the publication of Lius and Yus work, the ligand-assisted synthesis of transition-metal-containing S-1 zeolites attracted growing attention in the PDH area. Xie et al. (25) employed ethylenediamine as a ligand to encapsulate isolated Zn2+ cations within the S-1 zeolites. The isolated Zn2+ species were trapped in the SiOH groups. The optimized Zn-4@S-1 catalyst can achieve a propane conversion of 42% and propylene selectivity of 97%. The in situ near-ambient pressure (NAP) X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra reveal the Zn2+ would be partially reduced into Znδ+ (0 < δ < 2) during the PDH reaction. Particularly, the cofeed of 0.5 vol% of O2 leads to more than 50% loss of propane conversion. C3H8-temperature programed surface reaction spectroscopy (TPSR) measurements further indicate that cofeed of 0.5 vol% O2 to the system did not influence the propane activation but suppressed the propylene production. Therefore, the authors indicated that the first step of propane activation occurs on Zn2+ sites, while the second step of propane activation requires Znδ+ sites. The O2 feed increases the oxidation state of Zn, which suppresses the formation of Znδ+ species toward decreased propane conversions. Besides, a cofeed of 0.5 vol% H2 did not obviously alter the TPSR profiles of propane consumption and propylene formation, which is because a small amount of H2 would not change the oxidation state of Zn sites. (25) The ethylenediamine ligand also enables bimetallic Ni-Zn and MgO-ZnOx species to be encapsulated within an S-1 matrix. (26,92) For Ni-Zn-S1 system, XPS spectra reveal an electron donation effect from Zn to Ni sites. The electron-enriched Ni favors propylene desorption, which contributes to higher propylene selectivity and fewer coke deposits. (26) The optimized 0.2Ni0.06Zn-S1 catalyst exhibits an initial propane conversion of 32.5% with a propylene selectivity of 90%. Recently, Zhao et al. (92) developed a MgO modified ZnOx/S-1 system to suppress the volatilization of ZnOx species during PDH reaction. The formation of stable Zn-O-Mg bonds was confirmed by FTIR, XPS, and XAFS measurements. The MgO modification did not impact the intrinsic activity of the ZnOx species. Notably, the Zn loss in ZnO/S-1(Mg) is about 15.0% (4.03.4 wt %) after 20 PDH reaction-regeneration cycles under industrial relevant conditions, which is much lower than the Mg-free counterpart with a Zn loss of 28.5% (5.64.0 wt %).Hu et al. (97) constructed the isolated Co motifs within the S-1 framework via the ethylenediamine-assisted hydrothermal method. The advanced iDPC-scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) technique and combined spectroscopic analyses reveal that the incorporated Co motifs exhibit a distorted (SiO)2Co(HOSi)2 coordination, which was homogeneously embedded at the T1(7) and T3(9) sites within the S-1 framework. DFT calculations reveal that the Co sites could activate propane to form the binding C3H7* and H* intermediates, which subsequently evolve into a (SiO)(C3H7)-Co(HOSi)3 coordination The second dehydrogenation step leads to the (SiO) CoHδ(Hδ+OSi)3 structure with the release of one C3H6 molecule. Finally, the reactive center restores its initial state after the H2 coupling-desorption step. The dynamic evolution and restoration of isolated framework Co motifs contribute to outstanding PDH performance with a propylene productivity of 7.2 mmolC3H6·gcat1·h1 and a propylene selectivity of 100%. The zeolite framework provides an effective microenvironment for stabilizing the Co motifs during six reaction-regeneration cycles.In addition to ethylenediamine, researchers have also explored other types of ligands for encapsulating metal species within zeolites. Yang et al. (19) reported the use of ethylenediaminetetraacetic sodium (EDTA-2Na) to assist in situ incorporation of isolated and reduction-resistant Feδ+ species within the S-1 framework. The resulting FeS1-EDTA catalyst displays good coke resistance in 200 h of an ethane dehydrogenation (EDH) reaction without any deactivation. Wu et al. (20) reported the in situ encapsulation of isolated Co2+ sites within the S-1 framework with the assistance of ammonia. The ammonia reacts with Co2+ ions to produce [Co(NH3)6]2+ species in the alkaline hydrothermal precursor, which avoids the Co(OH)x precipitation toward successful encapsulation. To date, several different ligands have been reported to assist in the encapsulation of metal/oxide species within zeolite. Since these ligands have different sizes, hydrolysis rates, and interactions with a silica matrix, modulating the ligand type and usage may affect the size, distribution, and coordination environment of the encapsulated metal species. (21,140) For example, Song et al. (21) reported the use of cobalt disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate and cobalt acetylacetonate as the metal sources to, respectively, introduce isolated framework Co2+ and extraframework subnanometric CoO clusters (1 nm) within S-1 zeolites. The successful synthesis was evidenced by spherical aberration-corrected (AC)STEM images and in situ DRIFT measurements. Owing to the strong SiOCo interactions, the CoO clusters and framework Co2+ were both reduction-resistant up to 700 C. Notably, the CoO clusters show a TOF value ten times that of the framework Td Co2+ site balanced with Na+ ions. The combined in situ DRIFT and theoretical frequency analysis indicates that the inferior activity of framework Td Co2+ sites (balanced with Na+ ions) may be due to the spatial restriction in propane adsorption/activation caused by the zeolite framework. Consistent with the previous studies, the reduction-resistant CoO clusters also exhibit superior propylene selectivity and catalytic stability than CoOx (evolve into metallic Co in PDH) nanoparticles in a Co/S-1 catalyst. DFT calculations reveal Π-bonding propylene on CoO clusters can prevent the overdehydrogenation reaction, which accounts for its superior propylene selectivity and catalytic stability. The same group (93) further reported the encapsulation of highly dispersed Zn species within S-1 by using zinc acetylacetone as the metal source. Particularly, the authors proposed a unique zinc hydride (ZnH) site transformed from an isolated framework Zn (ZnOH) site as evidenced by a series of in situ DRIFT measurements. AIMD simulations reveal such transformation was achieved by H2 dissociation on the ZnOH site to form a Zn(H)-(OH)3 moiety, and subsequently two OH groups spontaneously reacted to release one H2O molecule while retaining a stable ZnH moiety with a ZnHSi coordination. Kinetic experiments and DFT calculations reveal the ZnH site is more reactive than ZnOx clusters by decreasing the energy barrier of the first dehydrogenation step. As a result, the regulation of ZnOH content in fresh catalysts allows control of the amount of in situ produced ZnH species in the PDH reaction. The promoter screening results suggest Cu additives exhibit the best promotive effect. This optimal Cu-ZnO@S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion with 90% propylene selectivity at 600 C under undiluted propane, which approaches the thermodynamic equilibrium conversion. The kinetic experiments and DFT calculations indicate that the Cu-ZnO@S-1 catalyst follows a direct PDH mechanism identified by Zhu and colleagues, (107) in which the C3H7* intermediates attack the OH group (formed via the first dehydrogenated H* bond with the O atom in the SiOZn moiety) to directly produce propylene and H2. This direct pathway is kinetically more favorable than the stepwise mechanism involving two dehydrogenation steps and a subsequent H* coupling step. (107) Apart from stabilizing metal ions, the ligand additives could also regulate the zeolite morphology toward variations in the PDH performance. Lv et al. (99) employed the cobalt acetylacetonate and urea as a Co source and morphology regulator to synthesize nanosheet-like CoO containing S-1 catalysts with controllable b axis thickness (50150 nm). The morphology engineering affects the regioselective localization of subnanometric CoO clusters, which was indicated by deconvolution of the UVvis diffuse-reflectance and in situ NODRIFT spectra. The optimized CoO@MFI-P50 catalyst (b axis of 50 nm) contains the most α-type CoO species located at straight channels of the MFI matrix, which contributes to the stronger acidity and benefits the propane conversion as indicated by in situ C3H8-DRIFT, TPSR measurements, and kinetic experiments. This CoO@MFI-P50 obtains a promising propane conversion of 41.8% and propylene selectivity of 95% under industrially relevant conditions.Recently, Xu et al. (98) reported that atomically dispersed Coδ+ species could be incorporated within the S-1 framework via a ligand-free hydrothermal process. The resulting Co@MFI catalysts possess good MFI crystallinity at Co contents up to 10 wt %, which is much higher than the catalysts from a ligand-assisted synthesis approach (Co content is 13 wt %). (20,21,96,97) The atomically dispersed Co species form a stable -Coδ+-Oδ structure, which withstands H2 reduction up to 750 C. The authors indicate that PDH performance largely depends on the oxidation state of the Coδ+ sites. Specifically, the P modification, reduction of reaction temperature, and cofeed of oxidants (H2O, CO2) would increase the δ value toward decreasing C-H activation capacity. Besides, the Co sites in impregnated catalysts exhibit a lower δ value under PDH conditions (close to zero), which promotes both C-H and C-C cleavages. The optimized 6 wt % Co@MFI catalyst achieved a stable PDH activity that lasted for a 150 h test under 550 C, with propane conversion being maintained at 16% and propylene selectivity at 96%.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the ultrafast zeolite crystallization strategy developed by Yu et al. address the time-scale mismatch challenges in direct synthesis procedures for metal encapsulation, and what are its effects on the formation, structure, and catalytic performance of PtSn clusters within ZSM-5 zeolites, particularly in the context of propane conversion?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 