<quotes>
2559 activation and the hydrogen exchange reaction allows one to use H/D exchange as a test reaction for alkane activation.
Hydrogen exchange between small alkanes and Brnsted acid sites occurs within the temperature range of 523723 K on acid-form zeolites.[1935,40] The apparent activation energies are in the range of 107147 kJmol1. Methane and ethane ex- change with involvement of pentacoordinated carbonium ions as transition states on acidic zeolites. Propane can alternatively be exchanged with the intermediate formation of a carbenium ion intermediate. In this case, the regioselectivity of the ex- change into the methyl groups is detected.[34,41] Figures 1A and C demonstrate the involvement of both the methyl and the methylene groups of [D8]propane and [D10]n- butane in the exchange with acidic SiOHAl groups on zeolite H-ZSM-5. Indeed, the intensities of signals at 1.0 (CH3) and
1.5 ppm (CH2) of a 1H MAS NMR spectrum increase with the re-
action time. This corresponds to a transfer of a protium from the acidic SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the methyl and meth- ylene groups of the perdeuterated alkanes. It has been estab- lished that exchange with both the methyl and the methylene groups occur, with the inter- mediate formation of pentacoor- dinated carbonium ions as tran- sition states.
The activation energy of the exchange is 107 108 kJmol1 for both pro- pane[28,35] and n-butane.[42] When zeolites are modified with Zn, the picture of hydrogen exchange changes. Regioselec- tivity of the exchange is ob- served on Zn/H-ZSM-5 and Zn/
H-BEA
for propane and n- butane. The methyl groups of these alkanes are preferentially involved in the exchange. This corresponds to the growth in the intensity of the only methyl peak (at 1.0 ppm) with the reac- tion time in 1H MAS NMR spectra (Figure 1B,D,E,F). Kinetics param- eters of the exchange also change with regard to those on pure acid-form zeolites. While apparent activation energies are similar or notably lower for Zn- modified zeolites in comparison to acid-form zeolites, the rate of the exchange is essentially higher for Zn-modified zeolites within the same temperature range. The temperature thres- hold of the reaction onset de- creases by 50 K (see Figure 2 and Table 1).
Similar tendencies in the change of kinetic parameters of the exchange upon modifica- tion of BEA and ZSM-5 with Zn are also observed for methane and ethane. Figure 3 shows Arrhenius plots for the H/D ex- change reaction of methane and ethane on H-BEA, H-ZSM-5 and Zn/H-BEA.
It can be seen that the exchange is more than two orders of magnitude faster on Zn/H-BEA than that on a purely acidic form of the zeolites. The activation energies of the exchange for methane on
H-BEA
(138 kJmol1) and
H-ZSM-5
(118 kJmol1) are similar to those earlier identified for meth- ane[24] and ethane[25] on acid-form zeolites. The kinetics para- meters for H-BEA and H-ZSM-5 correspond to the mechanism of exchange with synchronous transfer of protons from the zeolite SiOHAl group to the alkane molecule and the symmet- rical return of one of the hydrogen atoms from the alkane to the oxygen atom of the zeolite framework via a pentacoordi- nated carbon atom in a transition state.[19] The rate of H/D exchange increases by more than two orders of magnitude for methane and ethane when the zeolite is modified with Zn. The apparent activation energies decrease to 8688 kJmol1. At the same time, the reaction onset is de- creased by 100 K.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. Specifically, the presence of metal species like Zn in zeolites affects the activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted sites. Zn acts as an intermediate, facilitating the activation process through its interaction with Brnsted acid sites. This results in a decrease in activation energy, acceleration of hydrogen exchange reactions, and regioselectivity of the exchange for certain alkanes, such as propane and n-butane. The enhanced efficiency of alkane activation by Zn-modified zeolites points to a synergistic effect between the metal species and acid sites, potentially enabling effective aromatization of small alkanes through a combination of dehydrogenation and olefin formation steps.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
金属基催化剂，包括支持的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石的组成、结构和反应条件影响了烷烃转化的机制和效率。具体而言，沸石中的金属物种如Zn会影响由酸性沸石位点激活烷烃的机制。Zn作为中间体，通过与酸性位点的相互作用促进烷烃的激活过程。这导致了激活能的降低、氢交换反应加速以及某些烷烃（如丙烷和正丁烷）的交换选择性。Zn修饰沸石中烷烃激活的增强效率表明了金属物种和酸位之间的协同作用，可能允许通过脱氢和烯烃形成步骤的有效芳香化，从而有效地对小烷烃进行转化。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
