<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          For all V/MCM-41 catalysts used in this study, higher propene selectivity is achieved with N2O as compared with O2 at similar degrees of C3H8 conversion.
          The catalytic activity is lower, however, in the presence of N2O as com- pared with O2 because of the weaker oxidizing potential of N2O relative to O2 for the re-oxidation of the reduced surface VOx sites during the ODP reaction.
          There is no significant difference in propene selectivity between highly dispersed surface VOx species and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is used as an oxidant.
          In contrast to highly dispersed VOx on the surface of MCM-41, the crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles are not selective for the ODP reaction in the presence of O2.
          The positive effect of N2O is related to the inhibition of direct C3H8 oxidation and the consecutive oxidation of C3H6 to COx.
          The inhibition is ascribed to reducing surface density (spatial separation) of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species, since N2O is a weaker oxidant for re-oxidation of reduced VOx species as compared with O2.
          From a stoichiometric point of view of the ODP reaction, selective propene formation is favored over combustion reactions at lower surface densities.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Nitrous oxide (N2O) has been found to be advantageous as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) due to its ability to achieve higher propene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen (O2) at similar degrees of propane conversion. This is attributed to the weaker oxidizing potential of N2O, which inhibits the direct oxidation of propane and the consecutive oxidation of propene to carbon oxides (COx). The use of N2O as an oxidant results in a lower catalytic activity due to its weaker ability to re-oxidize the reduced surface vanadium oxide (VOx) species. However, there is no significant difference in propene selectivity between highly dispersed surface VOx species and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is used as an oxidant. In contrast, crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles are not selective for the ODHP reaction in the presence of O2. The positive effect of N2O on propene selectivity is related to the reduction in surface density (spatial separation) of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species, as N2O is a weaker oxidant for re-oxidation of reduced VOx species compared to O2. From a stoichiometric point of view, selective propene formation is favored over combustion reactions at lower surface densities.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          一氧化二氮(N2O)已被发现作为氧化脱氢丙烷(ODHP)的氧化剂具有优势,因为它在与氧气(O2)相似的丙烷转化程度下,能够实现更高的丙烯选择性。这归因于N2O较弱的氧化电位,它抑制了丙烷的直接氧化和丙烯连续氧化为一氧化碳和二氧化碳(COx)。使用N2O作为氧化剂导致较低的催化活性,因为N2O较弱的能力重新氧化表面钒氧化物(VOx)的还原形式。然而,当N2O用作氧化剂时,高度分散的表面VOx物种和结晶V2O5纳米粒子之间在丙烯选择性上没有显著差异。相比之下,在O2存在下,结晶V2O5纳米粒子对ODHP反应没有选择性。N2O对丙烯选择性的正面影响与表面VOx物种中活性表面晶格氧的表面密度(空间分离)降低有关,因为N2O与O2相比,是一种较弱的氧化剂,用于还原VOx物种的重新氧化。从ODHP反应的化学计量观点来看,在较低的表面密度下,选择性丙烯形成比燃烧反应更受青睐。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
