<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          Steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI and BEA) are efficient catalysts for the N2O-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, with ini- tial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K, but deactivate as a result of coke formation.
          A tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) coupled to GC analysis has been applied to correlate activity and deactivation by simultaneous measurements of reaction and coking.
          The presence of extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, is essential for producing active catalysts.
          The nature and dis- tribution of extraframework iron species, the zeolite host, and the catalyst acidity have no significant effect on the initial propene yield, but strongly influence the deactivation behavior.
          FeZSM-5 shows a remarkable resistance against deactivation, while a very rapid and complete deactivation occurred in FeBEA.
          The initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA was remarkably higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA (with 3040 times lower iron content), although the residual activities after 400 min on stream were very similar.
          The remarkable yields toward propionaldehyde (up to 6%) have been obtained.
          A major drawback of FeMFI zeo- lites in ODHP with N2O is the deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease of the propene yield.
          The TEOM consists of a microreactor with a high-resolution microbalance that generates real-time measurements of mass changes during gas-solid reactions.
          The TEOM presents three main advantages over conventional gravimetric microbalances: (i) a well-defined flow pattern, eliminating possible (heat and mass) diffusion and bouyancy phenomena; (ii) a very fast response time res- olution (0.1 s); and (iii) a high mass resolution across the entire range of pressure and temperature.
          Steam activation is essential for achieving high catalytic activities, as concluded from the low conversion of reactants and propene yield obtained over the calcined iron zeolites.
          Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are thus responsible for the oxydehydrogenation of propane with nitrous oxide.
          The difference in initial C3H6 yield between ex-FeZSM-5 and ex-Fe-silicalite is marginal if their constitution with re- spect to iron is taken into account.
          The initial activity of the syn- thesized Fe-zeolites, expressed as mole C3H8 converted per unit of time and catalyst mass is 23 higher than over the commercial zeolites, while the former catalysts contain 30 40 times more iron.
          The rapid deactivation observed in ex-FeBEA and ex- H-BEA can be connected to the presence of large cavities with relatively small apertures in the BEA framework, espe- cially at the intersection of the channels.
          The rate of deactivation over the MFI catalysts is significantly lower, and can be related to the absence of large cages in this zeolitic structure, since channels and intersections are of similar size.
          The higher deactivation resistance of steam-activated ex-FeZSM- 5 in ODHP with N2O is unclear at this stage, but can be tentatively related to the different iron constitutions in both catalysts and/or the different porous structure associated to the presence of aluminum in the original zeolite framework.
          Ex-FeZSM-5 contains mesopores due to dealumination upon steam treatment, which are absent in ex-Fe-silicalite.
          The more open structure of FeZSM-5 may reduce pore blocking by coke and also to improve transport of reactants and products, slowing down deactivation.
          The activity of ex-FeZSM-5 in direct N2O decomposition is significantly higher than that of ex-Fe-silicalite.
          N2O activation generates atomic oxygen over certain iron species, which is efficiently utilized for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
          However, re- combination of atomic oxygen and desorption as O2 may lead to reaction with coke at specific locations of the zeolite at the operating temperature, resulting in COx.
          This function would partially regenerate the catalyst surface.
          This hypoth- esis would imply that highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition have an increased resistance to- ward coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Nitrous oxide (N2O) is an efficient oxidant for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI and BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. However, catalyst deactivation occurs due to coke formation.
          A tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) coupled to GC analysis has been applied to correlate activity and deactivation by simultaneous measurements of reaction and coking.
          Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for producing active catalysts.
          The nature and distribution of extraframework iron species, the zeolite host, and the catalyst acidity have no significant effect on the initial propene yield, but strongly influence the deactivation behavior.
          FeZSM-5 shows a remarkable resistance against deactivation, while a very rapid and complete deactivation occurred in FeBEA.
          The initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA was remarkably higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA (with 3040 times lower iron content), although the residual activities after 400 min on stream were very similar.
          Remarkable yields toward propionaldehyde (up to 6%) have been obtained.
          A major drawback of FeMFI zeolites in ODHP with N2O is the deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease of the propene yield.
          The TEOM consists of a microreactor with a high-resolution microbalance that generates real-time measurements of mass changes during gas-solid reactions.
          The TEOM presents three main advantages over conventional gravimetric microbalances: a well-defined flow pattern, a very fast response time resolution (0.1 s), and a high mass resolution across the entire range of pressure and temperature.
          Steam activation is essential for achieving high catalytic activities, as concluded from the low conversion of reactants and propene yield obtained over the calcined iron zeolites.
          Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are responsible for the oxydehydrogenation of propane with nitrous oxide.
          The difference in initial C3H6 yield between ex-FeZSM-5 and ex-Fe-silicalite is marginal if their constitution with respect to iron is taken into account.
          The initial activity of the synthesized Fe-zeolites is significantly higher than over the commercial zeolites, while the former catalysts contain 30 40 times more iron.
          The rapid deactivation observed in ex-FeBEA and ex-H-BEA can be connected to the presence of large cavities with relatively small apertures in the BEA framework, especially at the intersection of the channels.
          The rate of deactivation over the MFI catalysts is significantly lower, and can be related to the absence of large cages in this zeolitic structure, since channels and intersections are of similar size.
          The higher deactivation resistance of steam-activated ex-FeZSM-5 in ODHP with N2O is unclear, but can be tentatively related to the different iron constitutions in both catalysts and/or the different porous structure associated with the presence of aluminum in the original zeolite framework.
          Ex-FeZSM-5 contains mesopores due to dealumination upon steam treatment, which are absent in ex-Fe-silicalite.
          The more open structure of FeZSM-5 may reduce pore blocking by coke and also improve transport of reactants and products, slowing down deactivation.
          The activity of ex-FeZSM-5 in direct N2O decomposition is significantly higher than that of ex-Fe-silicalite.
          N2O activation generates atomic oxygen over certain iron species, which is efficiently utilized for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.
          However, recombination of atomic oxygen and desorption as O2 may lead to reaction with coke at specific locations of the zeolite at the operating temperature, resulting in COx.
          This function would partially regenerate the catalyst surface.
          This hypothesis would imply that highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition have an increased resistance toward coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          使用蒸汽活化Fe-沸石（MFI和BEA）作为催化剂的N2O介导的丙烷氧化脱氢可以达到初始丙烯产量高达25%，温度为723 K。然而，这些催化剂由于焦炭形成而失活。
          使用与GC分析耦合的锥形元件振荡微天平（TEOM）同时测量反应和焦化，以关联活性和失活。
          在蒸汽处理过程中生成的框架外铁物种对于产生活性催化剂至关重要。
          框架外铁物种的性质和分布，沸石宿主和催化剂酸性对初始丙烯产量没有显著影响，但强烈影响失活行为。
          FeZSM-5显示出对失活的显著抵抗力，而FeBEA则经历了快速和完全的失活。
          FeZSM-5和FeBEA的初始丙烯产量显著高于商业H-ZSM-5和H-BEA（铁含量低3040倍），尽管400分钟后流过的残余活性非常相似。
          获得了对丙醛的显著产量（高达6%）。
          FeMFI沸石在N2O-ODHP中的主要缺点是由于焦炭导致的失活，导致丙烯产量迅速下降。
          TEOM由一个具有高分辨率微天平的微型反应器组成，可生成气体-固体反应期间质量变化的实时测量。
          TEOM与传统重力微天平相比具有三个主要优势：明确定义的流型，消除了可能的（热和质量）扩散和浮力现象；非常快的响应时间分辨率（0.1秒）；以及整个压力和温度范围内的高质质量。
          蒸汽活化对于实现高催化活性至关重要，正如从铁沸石煅烧后反应物和丙烯产量的低转化率得出的结论。
          在蒸汽处理过程中生成的框架外铁物种负责丙烷与一氧化二氮的氧脱氢。
          如果考虑到它们相对于铁的组成，ex-FeZSM-5和ex-Fe-silicalite之间的初始C3H6产量之间的差异是微小的。
          合成Fe-沸石的初始活性，以每单位时间和催化剂质量转换的C3H8摩尔表示，比商业沸石高23倍，而前者催化剂的铁含量高30 40倍。
          在ex-FeBEA和ex-H-BEA中观察到的快速失活可以与BEA框架中存在大空腔和相对小的开口相关联，特别是在通道的交界处。
          MFI催化剂的失活速率显著较低，可以与这种沸石结构中不存在大笼子相关，因为通道和交界处的大小相似。
          蒸汽活化ex-FeZSM-5在N2O-ODHP中的更高失活抗性尚不清楚，但可以暂时与两种催化剂的不同铁组成和/或与原始沸石框架中存在铝相关的不同多孔结构相关。
          ex-FeZSM-5由于蒸汽处理过程中脱铝而含有介孔，而在ex-Fe-silicalite中不存在。
          FeZSM-5的更开放结构可能减少焦炭对孔的堵塞，并且还可以改善反应物和产物的运输，从而减缓失活。
          ex-FeZSM-5在直接N2O分解中的活性显著高于ex-Fe-silicalite。
          N2O激活在某些铁物种上产生原子氧，这被有效地用于丙烷的氧化脱氢。
          然而，原子氧的重组和作为O2的解吸可能会导致在操作温度下在沸石的特定位置与焦炭反应，产生COx。
          这种功能将部分再生催化剂表面。
          这种假设意味着在直接N2O分解中高度活性的Fe-沸石催化剂在N2O-ODHP中对焦炭失活具有增强的抵抗力。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
