<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "Although there are other metallic reforming catalysts such as Ru and Rh, which are less strongly prone to coking than Ni,129 Ni is one of the most common reforming catalysts, which is partly due to its significantly cheaper price. In order to overcome the coking problem of Ni catalysts, numerous theoretical studies have been conducted to understand the coke formation on nickel and to come up with potential strategies to avoid the unwanted coking process."
          [2] "It could be shown that the adsorption of C atoms on the closed packed surface of a NiAu surface alloy is thermodynamically less favoured, by 23 kJ mol1 or more, than the analogous process on a pure Ni(111) surface.134 Based on this finding, it has been proposed to alloy Ni with Au.134 A cheaper alternative is to alloy Ni with Sn which hinders the CC bond formation and enhances the CO bond formation leading to the removal of surface C centers as carbon monoxide.135,136 It has been discussed that the Sn atoms separate the Ni centers on the catalyst surface, which tend to bind C atoms, from each other. With the Ni centers being separated, the C atoms on the surface are separated as well, which hinders the formation of coke.135,136 These theoretical results are consistent with experiments which show that pure Ni catalysts deactivate significantly faster than NiSn alloy based catalysts.135 Since the step sites play an essential role in the growth of the graphene islands, as mentioned above, additives such as potassium,66 sulfur,66 gold66 or boron131 have been proposed.66 Computational calculations have shown that these elements tend to occupy the step sites and thus avoid the formation of graphene islands.66,131 A similar strategy, by blocking the crucial sites, has been proposed to prevent the formation of a carbidic phase. Calculations have shown that boron prefers the same sub-surface sites on Ni as C.137 By occupying these sites with B, the diffusion of C to these sub-surface sites and the formation of the thermodynamically more stable carbide phase can be prevented.128 Apart from blocking the sub-surface sites, sub-surface boron in Ni(111) also has been shown to have an destabilizing effect on on-surface C centers,138 which may help to prevent the accumulation of C atoms on the surface."
          [3] "Although supported Pt catalysts show high activity, the catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenging issue."
          [4] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [5] "It has been demonstrated for graphene islands on the Ni(111) surface, unsaturated C atoms at the edge of a graphene island are less stable than isolated C atoms on the metal surface."
          [6] "A cheaper alternative is to alloy Ni with Sn which hinders the CC bond formation and enhances the CO bond formation leading to the removal of surface C centers as carbon monoxide."
          [7] "Since the step sites play an essential role in the growth of the graphene islands, as mentioned above, additives such as potassium, sulfur, gold or boron have been proposed."
          [8] "Apart from blocking the sub-surface sites, sub-surface boron in Ni(111) also has been shown to have an destabilizing effect on on-surface C centers, which may help to prevent the accumulation of C atoms on the surface."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent the accumulation of carbon atoms on the surface and hinder the formation of coke. Alloying Ni with Au makes the adsorption of C atoms on the surface less favorable thermodynamically. Alloying Ni with Sn hinders the formation of CC bonds and enhances the formation of CO bonds, leading to the removal of surface C centers as carbon monoxide. This separation of Ni centers on the catalyst surface prevents the formation of coke. Additionally, additives such as potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can be used to occupy step sites and prevent the formation of graphene islands. Boron can also be used to block sub-surface sites and prevent the formation of a carbidic phase. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) has a destabilizing effect on on-surface C centers, which helps prevent the accumulation of C atoms on the surface.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          最近开发的策略，以增强直接脱氢过程中支撑金属催化剂的催化稳定性，包括将Ni与Au或Sn合金化，以防止表面碳原子的积累和阻碍焦炭的形成。将Ni与Au合金化，使表面C原子的吸附在热力学上变得不那么有利。将Ni与Sn合金化，可以阻止CC键的形成，增强CO键的形成，从而将表面C中心作为一氧化碳去除。这种催化剂表面Ni中心的分离可以防止焦炭的形成。此外，可以使用钾、硫、金或硼等添加剂来占据台阶位点，防止石墨烯岛的形成。硼还可以用来阻塞亚表面位点，防止碳化物相的形成。Ni(111)中的亚表面硼对表面C中心有破坏作用，有助于防止表面C原子的积累。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
