<quotes>
3. "Vanadium containing catalysts have been intensely investigated for the ODH reaction since the late 1980s (see [24] and references therein)."
4. "The main problem that catalysts for the ODH reaction for propane face is how to activate selectively the CH bond in propane without oxidizing the weaker CH bond in propylene or oxidize the reactive double bond."
5. "High surface areas enable the dispersion of significant amounts of vanadia at low surface densities (V/nm2)."
6. "Interestingly, the sample 3.5-V which displays a small second reduction peak also shows lower selectivity in the reaction compared to the 2.5- and 5-V samples."
7. "Even though no change in the state of vanadia is seen by XRD, TPR or by the catalytic behavior of the catalyst. This may be due to the presence of increasing fraction of isolated V=O sites on catalysts at the lowest loadings."
8. "By depositing niobia in a second step the number of these new sites is diminished and high selectivity to propylene is restored at a much higher propylene formation rate per gram vanadium because of the high surface area available for supporting vanadia."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Vanadium-based catalysts have been extensively studied for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactions since the late 1980s.
2. The primary challenge for ODH catalysts is selectively activating the C-H bond in propane without oxidizing the weaker C-H bond in propylene or the reactive double bond.
3. High surface areas facilitate the dispersion of vanadia at low surface densities.
4. The catalyst with a slight second reduction peak exhibits lower selectivity compared to those with a stronger peak.
5. Low loading of vanadia might lead to an increasing fraction of isolated V=O sites, enhancing propylene formation.
6. Depositing niobia improves catalyst selectivity by reducing the number of low-temperature reduction sites.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 自1980年代后期以来，研究人员一直在深入研究含钒催化剂在氧化脱氢反应中的应用。
2. ODH催化剂的主要挑战是如何选择性地激活丙烷中的C-H键，而不氧化丙烯中的较弱C-H键或双键。
3. 高比表面积能够使钒在较低表面密度下分散。
4. 表现出微弱第二还原峰的催化剂的活性低于具有较强峰的催化剂。
5. 低负载的钒可能会导致越来越多的孤立V=O位点，从而增加丙烯生成速率。
6. 添加铌氧化物通过减少低温还原峰的数量，提高了催化剂的选择性。
