<example>
    <English>
        <English> 
            A comprehensive review of the mechanisms involved in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, focusing on the activation of C-H bonds, catalyst regeneration, and oxidant utilization, has been developed based on detailed insights from several scientific studies. This review emphasizes the differences in mechanisms between redox-active and redox-inactive metal oxide catalysts, specifically V2O5, VOx/SiO2, CeO2, and transition metal clusters, when used for oxidative dehydrogenation. It further explores the role of both traditional oxidants and CO2 as an alternative oxidant in the process.

            The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes typically involves the activation of C-H bonds, a process that varies significantly depending on whether the catalyst is redox-active or redox-inactive. Redox-active metal oxide catalysts, such as vanadia (V2O5) and vanadyl oxide (VOx/SiO2), effectively utilize oxygen as a strong oxidant to facilitate the breaking of C-H bonds. On the other hand, redox-inactive catalysts, such as ceria (CeO2), might require additional conditions or additives for effective CO2 activation. Transition metal clusters also play a role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, although their specific mechanisms and effectiveness may vary.

            The effectiveness of these catalysts in activating CO2 for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane depends on their ability to selectively activate the C-H bonds without requiring an external oxidant like oxygen. For instance, ceria is known for its ability to store and release oxygen, which aids in the activation of CO2 for oxidative dehydrogenation. Transition metal clusters might offer a more localized and efficient redox site for alkane activation.

            Traditional oxidants and CO2 are central to the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, influencing the energy barriers for CO2 dissociation. CO2 acts as a soft oxidant, helping to mitigate deep oxidation of alkanes and alkynes, reducing coke formation, and facilitating propane conversion by participating in the reverse water-gas shift reaction (RWGS).

            In the context of propane dehydrogenation, redox-active metal oxide catalysts such as V2O5 and VOx/SiO2 are effective in activating CO2 for oxidative dehydrogenation, whereas redox-inactive catalysts like CeO2 might require additional conditions or additives for effective CO2 activation. Transition metal clusters also contribute to the process, although their specific mechanisms and effectiveness may differ.

            The use of CO2 as an alternative oxidant holds potential for oxidative dehydrogenation processes, offering benefits such as avoiding deep oxidation of alkanes/alkenes, reducing coke formation, and favoring propane conversion due to the participation of produced hydrogen in the RWGS. This makes CO2 a valuable alternative oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.

            An example of this is the use of iron-doped ceria (Fe-CeO2) as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane with CO2. This system demonstrates enhanced stability and promising catalytic performance compared to traditional redox-active catalysts. The catalyst's performance is attributed to the specific synthesis parameters, including calcination temperature, which affects the formation of a solid solution between iron and ceria, thereby enhancing the catalyst's activity and stability.

            The synthesis of Fe-doped ceria catalysts involves a co-precipitation method followed by calcination at various temperatures. Calcination at 600°C is particularly advantageous because it yields a higher specific surface area and forms a Fe-Ce solid solution, rather than two separated cerianite-hematite phases. This optimal synthesis condition is crucial for the catalyst's performance in oxidative dehydrogenation, ensuring a stable and active surface for the reaction.
        </English>
        
        <Chinese>
            基于对多项研究的深入分析，本文综述了烷烃氧化脱氢过程中的C-H键活化、催化剂再生以及氧化剂利用机制，重点探讨了活性氧金属氧化物催化剂（如V2O5、VOx/SiO2、CeO2及过渡金属簇）在氧化脱氢反应中的不同作用机理。同时，本文还探讨了传统氧化剂和二氧化碳作为替代氧化剂在该过程中的角色。

            烷烃的氧化脱氢通常涉及C-H键的活化，这一过程在红ox活性与非活性金属氧化物催化剂之间存在显著差异。红ox活性金属氧化物催化剂，如五氧化二钒（V2O5）和五氧化二钒/二氧化硅（VOx/SiO2），有效利用氧气作为强氧化剂来促进C-H键的断裂。相比之下，红ox非活性催化剂，如氧化铈（CeO2），可能需要额外条件或添加剂来有效地激活二氧化碳。过渡金属簇也参与丙烷的氧化脱氢，但它们的特定机制和有效性可能有所不同。

            这些催化剂在丙烷氧化脱氢过程中激活二氧化碳的有效性取决于它们选择性激活C-H键的能力，无需外部氧化剂如氧气。例如，氧化铈因其能够存储并释放氧气而闻名，这有助于激活二氧化碳进行氧化脱氢。过渡金属簇可能提供更局部且高效的还原位点以激活烷烃。

            传统氧化剂和二氧化碳是烷烃氧化脱氢的关键因素，影响二氧化碳的分解能垒。二氧化碳作为一种软氧化剂，有助于避免深氧化烷烃和烯烃，减少焦炭形成，并通过参与逆水煤气变换反应（RWGS）促进丙烷转换，从而使其成为丙烷氧化脱氢过程中的有价值替代氧化剂。

            在丙烷脱氢过程中，红ox活性金属氧化物催化剂，如V2O5和VOx/SiO2，对于二氧化碳的激活和氧化脱氢非常有效，而红ox非活性催化剂，如CeO2，则可能需要额外条件或添加剂来有效地激活二氧化碳。过渡金属簇也对过程有所贡献，但它们的特定机制和有效性可能有所不同。

            二氧化碳作为替代氧化剂的使用具有潜力，在氧化脱氢过程中带来诸多益处，包括避免深氧化烷烃/烯烃、减少焦炭形成以及通过生成的氢参与逆水煤气变换反应促进丙烷转换。这使得二氧化碳成为丙烷氧化脱氢过程中的有价值的替代氧化剂。

            一个实例是铁掺杂铈氧化物（Fe-CeO2）作为丙烷氧化脱氢过程中二氧化碳的催化剂。该系统展示了与传统红ox活性催化剂相比，其稳定性增强和催化性能表现出色。催化剂的性能归因于其合成参数，特别是煅烧温度的影响，它影响了铁与铈之间固体溶液的形成，从而增强了催化剂的活性和稳定性。

            铁掺杂铈氧化物催化剂的合成采用共沉淀法，随后在不同温度下进行煅烧。在600°C的煅烧条件下，可以获得更高的比表面积，并形成Fe-Ce固体溶液，而不是分离的铈亚铁-氧化铁相。这种最优的合成条件对于氧化脱氢过程中的催化剂表现至关重要，确保了稳定且活性的表面。
        </Chinese>
    </English>
    <References>
        Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
        Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
        Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
    </References>
</example>

※※※

<English>
    Integrative Understanding and Prospective Outlook:
        The review elucidates the intricate mechanisms underlying oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, highlighting the pivotal roles of redox-active and redox-inactive metal oxide catalysts, with a special emphasis on CO2 as an alternative oxidant. The synthesis and application of Fe-doped ceria (Fe-CeO2) as a catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane with CO2 exemplifies the innovative use of this versatile material, showcasing enhanced stability and catalytic performance. The study underscores the potential of CO2 as a soft oxidant, which not only mitigates deep oxidation of alkanes and alkynes but also reduces coke formation and facilitates propane conversion through participation in the RWGS.

        The future of oxidative dehydrogenation catalysts is promising, with emerging fields and innovative methodologies set to transform the landscape. Future research endeavors could focus on:
        
        - Exploring the synergies between redox-active and redox-inactive catalysts to enhance the efficiency of CO2 activation and propane conversion.
        - Investigating the role of dopants and additive materials to improve the stability and selectivity of catalysts, especially in the presence of CO2.
        - Developing new catalyst designs that optimize the redox cycle, potentially increasing the energy efficiency of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.
        - Enhancing the understanding of reaction mechanisms at the molecular level to predict and tailor catalyst performance for specific alkane conversions.
        - Leveraging computational methods, such as density functional theory (DFT), to guide the rational design of catalysts and predict their performance in real-world applications.
        - Expanding the scope of alternative oxidants beyond CO2 to include other environmental-friendly oxidants, aiming to reduce the environmental impact of the oxidative dehydrogenation process.
        
        These advancements will not only deepen our fundamental knowledge of oxidative dehydrogenation but also pave the way for more sustainable and economically viable industrial practices.
</English>
<Chinese>
    整合理解与前瞻视角：
        本文综述了烷烃氧化脱氢过程中复杂的机制，强调了活性氧金属氧化物催化剂（包括红ox活性与非活性催化剂）的关键作用，特别是二氧化碳作为替代氧化剂的应用。铁掺杂铈氧化物（Fe-CeO2）作为丙烷氧化脱氢过程中二氧化碳的催化剂，是一个创新应用的例子，展示了其优越的稳定性和催化性能。研究表明，二氧化碳作为一种软氧化剂不仅能够减轻深氧化烷烃和烯烃的深度氧化，还能通过参与逆水煤气变换反应（RWGS）减少焦炭形成，促进丙烷转换。

        未来氧化脱氢催化剂的发展前景广阔，新兴领域和创新方法有望重塑这一领域。未来的研究方向可能包括：

        - 探索红ox活性与非活性催化剂之间的协同作用，以提高二氧化碳激活和丙烷转化的效率。
        - 研究掺杂材料和添加剂的作用，以改善催化剂的稳定性和选择性，尤其是在二氧化碳存在的条件下。
        - 开发新的催化剂设计，优化红ox循环，可能提高氧化脱氢过程的能量效率。
        - 提升分子水平上的反应机制理解，以预测和定制催化剂性能，用于特定烷烃转化。
        - 利用计算方法，如密度泛函理论（DFT），指导催化剂的设计和预测其在实际应用中的性能。
        - 扩展替代氧化剂的范围，超越二氧化碳，包括其他环境友好的氧化剂，旨在减少氧化脱氢过程的环境影响。

        这些进展不仅将加深我们对氧化脱氢的基本知识理解，也将为更加可持续和经济可行的工业实践开辟道路。
</Chinese>
