I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
The Journal of Physical Chemistry BVol 110/Issue 42Article Cite Share Jump to Expand ARTICLESeptember 22, 2006 Mechanism of the MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer (MPVO) Redox Equilibrium on Sn and ZrBeta Zeolite Catalysts Mercedes BoronatAvelino CormaMichael Renz View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract The mechanism of the MeerweinPonndorfVerley (MPV) reduction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol catalyzed by Snbeta and Zrbeta zeolites has been theoretically investigated using density functional theory (DFT) and the cluster approach. An experimental catalytic study has shown that the active sites in the MPV reaction catalyzed by Snbeta are the same partially hydrolyzed SnOH groups that were found to be active for the BaeyerVilliger (BV) reaction. The computational study indicates that the mechanism of Snbeta and Zrbeta catalysis is similar, and involves the following steps: adsorption of both the ketone and the alcohol on the Lewis acid center, deprotonation of the alcohol, carbon-to-carbon hydride transfer, proton transfer from the catalyst, and products exchange. As in the aluminum alkoxide catalyzed reaction, the hydride shift occurs through a six-membered transition state, and the role of the hydrolyzed and therefore more flexible MOH bond is just to facilitate the initial deprotonation of the alcohol.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  2006 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Alcohols Carbonyls Catalysts Redox Reactions Zeolites * Corresponding author. Fax: 34(96)3877809. E-mail: acorma@itq.upv.es.
1. Introduction
The MeerweinPonndorfVerley (MPV) reduction of aldehydes and ketones and the complementary Oppenauer oxidation of alcohols (MPVO) are useful tools in organic synthesis, since they are chemoselective reactions that can be performed under mild conditions. Using secondary alcohols as hydrogen donors in the MPV reduction, carbonyl groups are selectively reduced in the presence of other reducible groups such as unsaturated CC bonds, Chalogen bonds, or nitro groups. Thus, for example, α,β-unsaturated alcohols, which are important starting materials for the production of fine chemicals, can be easily obtained. The choice of the secondary reductant alcohol and the use of additional ligands influence regio-, stereo-, and enantioselectivities. 1,2 The first promoters used in MPVO reactions were aluminum alkoxides, but they present the disadvantage that, due to difficulties during the ligand exchange step, stoichiometric amounts of the alkoxide are often needed. Higher reactivities have been achieved with dinuclear Al(III) complexes, 3 with Al(III) alkoxides generated in situ, 4 or with the introduction of Ln(III) alkoxides, 5 which can be used in catalytic amounts (510 mol %). The zirconium complex bis(cyclopentadienyl)zirconium dihydride 6 and its hafnium analogue 7 have also been reported to be active in the MPV reaction.
To overcome some of the disadvantages of homogeneous catalysts, such as water sensitivity and catalyst separation, heterogeneous catalysts have been developed for the MPVO reactions. Metal oxides such as MgO, 8 γ-Al2O3, 9 and ZrO2, 10 grafted alkoxides or alkyl complexes, 11-13 and zeolites 14-18 have also been successfully applied in the MPVO reactions of a number of ketones and alcohols. The best heterogeneous materials found up to now are zeolites containing well-defined and isolated Lewis acid centers, such as Sn- or Zr-substituted zeolites.17,18 In the first version of the MPV reduction with aluminum isopropoxide, the mechanism was supposed to proceed through a six-membered cyclic transition state in which both the ketone and the deprotonated alcohol are coordinated to the metal center of the metal alkoxide. The coordination of the ketone or aldehyde to the metal atom polarizes and activates the carbonyl double bond, facilitating the hydride shift from the alcoholate. In 1953 it was shown by deuterium tracer studies that the mechanism of Al(III) isopropoxide promoted reactions proceeds exclusively by a carbon-to-carbon hydrogen transfer. 19 More recent mechanistic studies using deuterium-substituted alcohols and catalysts 20 have confirmed the same carbon-to-carbon hydrogen transfer pathway for the MPVO reactions catalyzed by La(III) alkoxides, while in the case of Albeta zeolite catalyst the reaction path depends on the substrate used. In a computational study of the reduction of acetophenone catalyzed by Al(III) complexes, 21 several reaction pathways were investigated and it was concluded that the classical and concerted direct hydrogen transfer mechanism is more favorable than either a stepwise hydridic route or a radical mechanism.
With respect to the mechanism of the MPVO reactions catalyzed by Sn- or Zr-substituted zeolites, no information can be found in the literature. Snbeta zeolite is a highly active and selective catalyst for a number of Lewis acid catalyzed redox reactions, such as the MPV reduction of ketones and aldehydes, 22 the BaeyerVilliger (BV) oxidation of carbonyl compounds with H2O2, 23 or the cyclization of citronellal to isopulegol, 24 while Zrbeta has been reported to show excellent activity and selectivity in the MPVO reactions of several substrates 25 and in the cyclization of citronellal to isopulegol. 26 The nature of the active sites in Snbeta has been experimentally and theoretically investigated, 27,28 and it has been found that the activity of this catalyst for the BaeyerVilliger oxidation of ketones with H2O2 is related to the presence of tetrahedrally coordinated framework tin atoms having one SnOSi bond. These sites are bifunctional, and consist of the Lewis acidic tin atom that activates the carbonyl group and the adjacent basic oxygen atom of the SnOH group, which is able to form a hydrogen bond with H2O2. If the same bifunctional sites were the active centers in the MPV reduction of carbonyl compounds catalyzed by Snbeta zeolite, besides the classical mechanism involving a hydride shift between the ketone and the alcoholate coordinated to the metal center, the reductant alcohol molecule could form a hydrogen bond with the basic oxygen atom and the reaction could proceed without deprotonation of the alcohol, following a reaction path different from that proposed for the Al(III) catalyzed reactions.
We present in this work a complete computational study of the mechanism of the MPV reduction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol catalyzed by Snbeta and Zrbeta zeolites. Several possibilities for adsorption of cyclohexanone and 2-butanol on the Lewis acid active site have been considered, and the different reaction paths starting from these adsorption complexes have been investigated. Moreover, an experimental catalytic study has been performed in order to clarify (a) whether the active sites for the Snbeta catalyzed MPV reaction are the same partially hydrolyzed SnOH groups that were found active for the BV reaction, (b) whether the mechanism involves an alcoholate intermediate formed by deprotonation of the alcohol as in Al(III) and La(III) catalyzed reactions, and (c) which are the catalytic differences between Snbeta and Zrbeta for the MPV reaction.
2. Experimental Methods
2.1. Computational Details. Previous computational and spectroscopic work27,28 showed that the catalytic activity of Snbeta zeolite for the BaeyerVilliger oxidation of ketones with H2O2 is related to the presence of tetrahedrally coordinated framework tin atoms having one hydrolyzed SnOSi bond. As it will be discussed later, framework Sn and Zr centers are responsible for the catalytic activity in the MeerweinPonndorfVerley reaction, and therefore Sn(OSiH3)3OH and Zr(OSiH3)3OH clusters of atoms were used to simulate the Lewis acid active sites. To build these models, in a first step a cluster of atoms containing four coordination spheres around the T9 position was cut out from the periodic structure of pure silica beta zeolite 29 (see Figure 1), the central Si atom was substituted by a metal atom M (M = Sn, Zr), and one of the MOSi(O)3 groups was substituted by a MOH group. The dangling bonds that connected the cluster to the rest of the solid were saturated with H atoms at 1.49 Å from the Si atoms and oriented toward the positions occupied in the crystal by the oxygen atoms in the next coordination sphere, and the geometry of the two resulting structures was optimized by means of the ONIOM scheme 30,31 as implemented in the Gaussian03 computer program. 32 The ONIOM approach subdivides the real system into a model system, which is described at the highest level of theory, and subsequent parts or layers that are computed at progressively lower and computationally cheaper levels of theory. In this work, the model system includes the M atom, the four oxygen atoms in the first coordination sphere, and the Si or H atoms bound to them. The coordinates of these atoms were completely optimized with the density functional B3PW91 method 33,34 using a LANL2DZ effective core potential basis set for Zr 35 and Sn, 36 and the standard 6-31G(d,p) basis set 37 for O, Si, and H atoms. The rest of the system was treated at the HF/3-21G level of theory, and only the coordinates of the terminal H atoms were kept fixed at their original positions. The combination of levels of theory (DFT/DZP:HF/3-21G) and the size of the model system chosen for the ONIOM calculations have been reported to provide results in excellent agreement with those obtained with full DFT periodic calculations. 38 The optimized values of the four SnO and four ZrO distances in the large clusters are on average 1.881 and 1.963 Å, respectively, reflecting the size of the incorporated metal atom.
Figure 1 (a) Topology of beta zeolite showing T9 position. (b) Large cluster and (c) small cluster with adsorbed cyclohexanone (A0).
In a second step, the smaller Sn(OSiH3)3OH and Zr(OSiH3)3OH clusters used to calculate the reaction mechanism were cut out from the optimized structures of these large models. Again, the dangling bonds that connected the small cluster to the rest of the solid were saturated with H atoms at 1.49 Å from the Si atoms. The computational study of the reaction mechanism was performed at the B3PW91/LANL2DZ,6-31G(d,p) level, and in all the minima and transition state geometry optimizations the coordinates of the organic molecules, the M, O, and Si atoms, and the H of the MOH group were set completely free, while the H terminations of the Si atoms were kept fixed at their original positions. The nature of every stationary point was characterized by means of frequency calculations and analysis of the vibrational modes, and all calculated energies were corrected for the zero-point vibrational energies (ZPE). Orbital energies and occupancies and atomic charges were obtained with natural bond orbital (NBO) methods. 39 It should be pointed out that the T9 position was chosen because a preliminary molecular mechanics study28 of Sn location in BEA zeolite indicated that this was the most favorable position for Si  Sn substitution. More recently, two different periodic DFT studies found either no preferential location for Sn 40 or preferential occupation of the T2 position 41 in BEA zeolite. Since the optimized structural parameters reported in the more complete computational study of Pal et al.41 indicate that the deformation of the framework caused by Sn incorporation is quite localized and similar in all nine positions, and in this work the local geometry around the metal center is fully optimized, we can assume that the MPV reaction mechanism calculated is valid for all possible locations of Sn.
2.2. Catalyst Preparation. The beta catalysts were prepared in fluoride media following literature procedures23,25 and were calcined at 853 K for 3 h. The zeolites showed high crystallinity, and no peaks of SnO2 or ZrO2 were found by X-ray diffraction (XRD). Nitrogen adsorption experiments on the calcined beta samples gave an isotherm very similar to that of pure silica beta with a micropore volume of 0.21 cm3 g-1 and BET surface areas of 450475 m2 g-1. The metal content was determined by atomic absorption and the following siliconmetal ratios were obtained: Si/Sn = 108 and Si/Zr = 116.
2.3. Catalytic Reactions.BaeyerVilliger Oxidations (BV). A 500-mg sample of adamantanone was mixed with 500 mg of 35% aqueous hydrogen peroxide and 3.0 g of dioxane. A 50-mg sample of the catalyst was added, and the reaction mixture was stirred and heated to 90 C for 7 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by gas chromatography (HP-5 column, 15 m, 0.32 mm, 0.5 μm with an adequate temperature program). The initial rates were calculated after 30 and 180 min reaction time for Snbeta and Zrbeta, respectively.
MeerweinPonndorfVerley Reductions (MPV). A stock solution of 855 mg of cyclohexanone and 33.36 g of 2-butanol was prepared. A 3.42-g sample of this stock solution was placed in a round-bottom flask, and a 7.5-mg sample of the catalyst was added. The reaction mixture was stirred and heated to 100 C for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by gas chromatography (HP-5 column, 15 m, 0.32 mm, 0.5 μm with an adequate temperature program). The initial rates were calculated after 5 and 15 min reaction time for Snbeta and Zrbeta, respectively.
3. Results and Discussion
3.1. Catalytic Activity Measurements. It is known from previous work27 that the catalytic activity of Snbeta for the BV reaction directly correlates with the concentration of partially hydrolyzed framework SnOH sites, and that catalysts with different concentrations of these sites can be obtained by modifications in the calcination procedure. A series of Snbeta samples subjected to different postsynthesis treatments, and therefore containing different numbers of partially hydrolyzed SnOH sites, were used to catalyze the BV oxidation of adamantanone with H2O2 and the MPV reduction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol, and the initial rates for both reactions were measured and compared (see Figure 2). There is a linear relationship between both series of data that meets the origin, indicating that the BV and the MPV reactions are catalyzed by the same type of center, i.e., the partially hydrolyzed framework SnOH group. As previously explained, this active site is bifunctional and consists of a Lewis acid tin atom to which both cyclohexanone and 2-butanol can coordinate, and the adjacent basic oxygen atom able to form a hydrogen bond with the alcohol.
Figure 2 Correlation of initial rate of the BaeyerVilliger oxidation of adamantanone with H2O2 (in mmol/h/g of catalyst) versus initial rate of the MeerweinPonndorfVerley reduction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol. Both reactions were catalyzed by a series of samples of Snbeta zeolite subjected to different postsynthesis treatments.
3.2. Reaction Mechanisms with SnBeta. A very particular characteristic of the MPVO reactions is that a carbonyl compound is reduced to an alcohol molecule while an alcohol is oxidized to the corresponding carbonyl compound; i.e., the oxidation reaction is exactly the inverse of the reduction reaction and the sum of carbonyl compounds and of alcohols is the same before and after the hydride shift. If the reaction is really catalytic, i.e., the catalyst is provided only in catalytic amounts and remains unchanged after the reaction, and the carbonyl compound does not involve any kind of extra stabilization (as in a conjugated double bond), the system cannot differentiate substrates and products. There is no real driving force and the reaction system will tend to a statistical equilibrium. Consequently, in the computational study we have considered all the possible types of complexes that can be formed by interaction of one carbonyl compound and one alcohol molecule with the catalyst active site, and we have searched for transition states connecting these minima.
There are five different ways in which cyclohexanone and 2-butanol can adsorb on the Snbeta active site without deprotonation (structures A1A5 in Chart 1) and five corresponding structures A1A5 (not depicted) with interchanged carbon skeletons, that is, with cyclohexanol and 2-butanone adsorbed on the active site. Since the interactions in every pair of complexes AA are the same, their energies differ by less than 1 kcal/mol. There are also two complexes with the alcohol coordinated as alcoholate to the metal center, with the proton bound to the adjacent hydroxy group forming a water ligand, and with the ketone as additional adsorbate (structures D1 and D2 in Chart 1, and the corresponding D1 and D2 not depicted).
Chart 1 In structure A1, both the Oa atom of the ketone and the Ob atom of the alcohol are coordinated to the metal center. In A2 and A3, cyclohexanone is also directly interacting with tin, but the alcohol is coordinated by hydrogen bonding either to the basic Oc atom (A2) or to the Hc proton (A3) of the SnOH group. In the two other adsorption complexes, the Ob atom of the alcohol is directly coordinated to the Sn atom, while the Oa atom of the carbonyl group is forming a hydrogen bond either with the Hc of the SnOH group as in A4 or with the alcohol hydroxy Ha atom as in A5. The interaction of the metal center with the alcohol Ob seems to be slightly stronger than with the carbonyl Oa, since the calculated SnOb distances are always shorter than the SnOa values (see Table 1), and the most stable structures are A1, A4, and A5. The activation of the carbonyl group by the active site is also different in the five complexes considered. It is known28 that the Lewis acidbase interaction of cyclohexanone with the Snbeta active site involves not only the electron density transfer from the organic molecule to the catalyst, but also a back-donation from the catalyst to the antibonding π*(CO) orbital of cyclohexanone. This back-donation causes a lengthening of the CaOa bond reflected in a experimentally measured shift of the ν(CO) vibration frequency to lower values,23 and an increase in the positive atomic charge on the Ca atom. Thus, while the CaOa bond length calculated for one isolated cyclohexanone molecule at the B3PW91/6-31G(d,p) level of theory is 1.215 Å, the value obtained for cyclohexanone adsorbed on the Sn(OSiH3)3OH cluster model (structure A0 in Figure 1c) is 1.230 Å, and the net atomic charge on Ca increases from 0.592 to 0.666 e by adsorption on the tin center. Subsequent adsorption of a 2-butanol molecule either on the tin center (A1) or by hydrogen bonding to the OcHc group (A2 and A3) enhances the activation of the carbonyl group, with the CaOa bond lengths, the q(Ca) calculated values, and the occupancies of the π*(CO) orbital in structures A1A3 being slightly larger than in the cyclohexanone adsorption complex A0. When cyclohexanone interacts with a proton as in structures A4 and A5, the resulting system is more stable, but the shorter CaOa bond lengths and the lower values obtained for q(Ca) and π*(CO) occupancy indicate that the carbonyl group is less activated in these systems.
Table 1: Relative Energies (kcal/mol),a Optimized Bond Lengths (Å), Net Atomic Charge on the Carbonyl Ca Atom (e), and NBO Calculated Occupancy of the Cyclohexanone π*(CO) Orbital (e) in the Different Adsorption Complexes Depicted in Chart 1 Erel r(SnOa) r(SnOb) r(SnOc) r(CaOa) q(Ca) occπ*(CO) A1 19.6 2.325 2.247 1.954 1.233 0.666 0.113 A2 15.7 2.269 3.865 1.942 1.234 0.672 0.117 A3 18.9 2.297 3.629 1.904 1.232 0.669 0.113 A4 19.6 4.090 2.288 1.919 1.222 0.619 0.092 A5 21.1 4.238 2.200 1.930 1.227 0.638 0.101 D1 16.4 2.356 1.979 2.299 1.232 0.665 0.118 D2 20.9 4.488 1.935 2.275 1.226 0.628 0.098 A1Zr 26.2 2.387 2.343 2.045 1.227 0.660 0.110 D1Zr 26.0 2.417 2.037 2.416 1.233 0.670 0.120 aCalculated with respect to the sum of the energies of cyclohexanone + 2-butanol + the M(OSiH3)3OH cluster model.
If the alcohol is deprotonated, the hydroxy proton Hb is transferred to the basic Oc atom of the SnOH group, and the resulting system can be described as a Sn alcoholate with a water molecule coordinated to the metal. The higher flexibility of the hydrolyzed SnOc bond with respect to the other three SnOSi bonds facilitates the process, allowing a lengthening of the SnOc distance to 2.3 Å (see Table 1). There are only two different ways in which cyclohexanone can interact with this site: by direct coordination to the now less Lewis acidic metal center as in structure D1, or by hydrogen bonding to the water molecule as in D2. The activation of the carbonyl group in these two structures follows the trend observed in the nondeprotonated A systems: the activation of the CO bond is larger when cyclohexanone directly interacts with the Lewis acid tin center (structure D1).
Although A5 is the most stable complex localized on the potential energy surface, the energy difference with respect to A2, which is the less stable, is only 5.4 kcal/mol, indicating that all seven systems are energetically accessible under reaction conditions. The transformation within the A series or from D1 to D2 and vive versa can be achieved by ketone desorption/adsorption involving low-energy barriers. The deprotonation of the alcohol occurs through a transition state in which the Ha atom is halfway between the alcohol Ob atom and the Oc atom of the SnOH group. It has been found that this deprotonation can only occur when the alcohol is directly coordinated to the metal center and Ha is not interacting with the carbonyl group. Two transition states of this type have been localized and are depicted in Chart 2: TS1 connecting A1 with D1, and TS2 converting A4 into D2. The activation energy calculated for the deprotonation of A1 to give D1 is 4.9 kcal/mol, while the barrier for the reverse process is lower, 1.7 kcal/mol. The activation energies involved in the A4  D2 and D2  A4 processes are slightly higher, 7.0 and 8.3 kcal/mol, respectively, but still allow us to conclude that all type A and type D complexes are energetically accessible during the reaction.
Figure 3 Calculated energy profiles for the three steps obtained that involve a change in the oxidation state of Ca and Cb carbon atoms.
Chart 2 Three transition states were localized that involve a change in the oxidation state of the carbonyl carbon atom (Ca) and the carbon atom bearing the hydroxy group (Cb), i.e., that converted simultaneously cyclohexanone into cyclohexanol (or cyclohexanolate) and 2-butanol (or 2-butanolate) into 2-butanone (see Chart 2).
The first process considered occurs through the six-membered transition state TS3. Starting from complex A2, a simultaneous transfer of Ha to the carbonyl Oa atom and of Hb to the Ca atom gives as a result cyclohexanol coordinated to the Lewis acid Sn atom and 2-butanone forming a hydrogen bond with Ha (structure A5). It can be seen in Table 2 that the CaHb optimized distance in TS3 is considerably shorter than the HbCb value, and that the Ha atom is still covalently bonded to Ob, although strongly interacting with Oa. This indicates that the hydride shift is more advanced than the proton transfer. As shown in Figure 3, the activation barrier calculated for this process is high, 23.7 kcal/mol, and the reaction products are 5.1 kcal/mol more stable than the initial reactants. This pathway is very similar to the gas-phase mechanism; only one molecule is coordinated to the tin center and the capacity of the catalytic site is not fully exhausted. It should be mentioned that there is a corresponding pathway that converts structure A5 into A2 through a similar transition state TS3; however, it is not further considered because the activation barrier is higher, 30 kcal/mol, and the process is endothermic by 5 kcal/mol.
Table 2: Optimized Distances (in Å) and Relative Energies (kcal/mol)a of the Transition States Depicted in Chart 2 TS1 TS2 TS3 TS4 TS5 TS1Zr TS5Zr r(SnOa) 2.301 4.205 2.168 2.039 2.094 2.407 2.204 r(OaCa) 1.234 1.225 1.339 1.330 1.309 1.231 1.305 r(CaHb) 5.328 7.191 1.272 1.237 1.363 5.808 1.371 r(HbCb) 1.098 1.096 1.461 1.544 1.350 1.100 1.354 r(CbOb) 1.439 1.434 1.312 1.293 1.312 1.421 1.304 r(ObSn) 2.117 2.082 4.107 3.759 2.111 2.198 2.159 r(ObHa) 1.241 1.192 1.055 1.063 2.074 1.203 2.808 r(HaOc) 1.193 1.242 1.435b 1.401 0.973 1.220 0.965 r(SnOc) 2.128 2.064 1.936 1.991 2.293 2.215 2.446 Erel 14.7 12.6 8.0 3.8 1.3 22.2 10.5 aCalculated with respect to the sum of the energies of cyclohexanone + 2-butanol + the M(OSiH3)3OH cluster model.br(HaOa).
In the second pathway found, the initial complex is again A2, but during the reaction the Ha proton of the 2-butanol molecule is directly transferred not to the carbonyl Oa, but to the Oc atom of the SnOH group, giving as a result structure D2. This occurs through the eight-membered transition state TS4, with an activation barrier of 19.5 kcal/mol. As in TS3, the hydride transfer from Cb to Ca is more advanced than the proton transfer from Ob to Oc, as indicated by the optimized geometry of TS4 given in Table 2. The activation barrier for the reverse process, i.e., conversion of D2 into A2, is 25.2 kcal/mol, as a result of the higher stability of the alcoholate with respect to the adsorption complex.
The third transition state that involves a hydride transfer between Ca and Cb is TS5, which directly connects the deprotonated complex D1 with the corresponding D1 system. Through this cyclic six-membered transition state, similar to that proposed for the Al alkoxide catalyzed reaction, Hb is transferred from Cb in the alcoholate to Ca in cyclohexanone, with an activation energy of 15.1 kcal/mol. In TS5 the Hb atom is halfway between Ca and Cb, the SnOa and SnOb distances are similar and around 2.1 Å, and the CaOa and CbOb calculated bond lengths are intermediate between those corresponding to single and double CO bonds. The hydride character of the transferring Hb atom is given by the net atomic charge on it, 0.18 e. Since the two minima connected by TS5 are almost degenerate, the activation barriers for the direct and the reverse processes are similar, as shown in Figure 3. The relative energies of TS3, TS4, and TS5 with respect to separated reactants are 8.0, 3.8, and 1.3 kcal/mol, respectively. These values are considerably higher than those calculated for TS1 and TS2, confirming that the rate-determining step in the MPVO reaction is the hydride transfer between Ca and Cb. Comparison of the three calculated energy profiles depicted in Figure 3 indicates that the reaction occurs through TS5, following a mechanism similar to that described for the Al alkoxide catalyzed reaction.
The complete pathway is depicted in Figure 4 and consists of three steps: (1) deprotonation of A1 into D1 with an activation energy of 4.9 kcal/mol, (2) hydride transfer between D1 and D1 with an activation barrier of 15.2 kcal/mol, and (3) conversion of D1 into A1 with an activation energy of only 2.0 kcal/mol.
Figure 4 Calculated energy profiles for the Snbeta and Zrbeta catalyzed reaction mechanisms.
3.3. Reaction Mechanisms with ZrBeta. The detailed computational study of the potential energy surface of the Snbeta catalyzed MPV reaction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol indicates that the only reaction pathways that finally lead to a change in the oxidation states of Ca and Cb carbon atoms start either from A1 or from A2, and that the deprotonated species D2 is not involved in any of these mechanisms. Therefore, only adsorption complexes A1 and A2 and the deprotonated structure D1 have been initially searched on the Zrbeta catalyzed potential energy surface. The optimized distances, relative energies, net atomic charge on the Ca atom, and calculated occupancies of the π*(CO) orbital in structures A1Zr and D1Zr are listed in Table 1. The ZrO optimized bond lengths are in all cases larger than the SnO values due to the larger size of the zirconium atom, but the degree of activation of the carbonyl group in A1Zr and D1Zr is similar to that in the corresponding structures of Snbeta. However, it was not possible to find a minima corresponding to structure A2Zr. The reason is the different natures of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) in Snbeta and of that in Zrbeta, depicted in Figure 5. The LUMO in the Snbeta active site is a linear combination of the four antibonding σ*(SnO) orbitals. When a Lewis base molecule such as cyclohexanone interacts with this site, the electron density transferred to the catalyst cannot be accepted by the tin atom, which pushes it into the orbital lobes located on the oxygen atoms. Thus, the oxygen atoms bonded to tin show a certain basic character and allow hydrogen bonding with the hydroxyl proton of 2-butanol. However, the LUMO in the Zrbeta catalyst is the dz2 orbital on the zirconium atom, and it can accept the electron density transferred from the Lewis base molecule without increasing the basic character of the neighboring oxygen atoms.
Figure 5 LUMO of Snbeta and Zrbeta active sites.
Therefore, there is only one possible reaction path for the Zrbeta catalyzed MPV reduction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol, equivalent to that obtained in the previous section for the Snbeta catalyzed process (see Figure 4). In a first step, the adsorption complex A1Zr is converted into the deprotonated species D1Zr through the transition state TS1Zr with an activation energy of 4.0 kcal/mol. The less basic character of the Oc atom bonded to Zr is reflected in the fact that, while in TS1 the transferring Ha atom is closer to Oc than to Ob, in TS1Zr the ObHa distance is shorter than the HaOc one (see Table 2). The rate-determining step is the hydride shift that converts D1Zr into D1Zr through transition state TS5Zr; the optimized geometry and the activation energy involved are similar to those obtained for the Snbeta catalyzed process. Finally, D1Zr is converted into the product complex A1Zr through transition state TS1Zr. The calculated activation energy is low, 3.1 kcal/mol, and the step is exothermic by 2.0 kcal/mol.
Comparison of the energy profiles depicted in Figure 4 shows that the energy barrier for the rate-determining step is similar on both catalysts, suggesting that Zrbeta could also be a good catalyst for the MPV reaction. There is not much experimental information comparing the activity of both catalysts. In ref 25 it is reported that for the MPV reduction of 4-tert-butylcyclohexanone with 2-propanol the conversion over Snbeta is similar to that over Zrbeta with high Si/Zr ratio, and increases with increasing Zr content. We have measured initial reaction rates and turnover frequency (TOF, mol of substrate converted per mol of catalytic sites and per hour) numbers for the MPV reduction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol (see Scheme 1) and have found that Snbeta is much more active than Zrbeta. It is worth mentioning that the TOF numbers given in Scheme 1 should be considered with care, because they have been calculated assuming that all Sn and Zr centers in the zeolite samples are active. In the case of Snbeta, it is known27 that only about 20% of the tin centers are hydrolyzed, which means that the real TOF number for this catalyst would probably be even higher. However, we do not have any data concerning the number of hydrolyzed Zr sites in Zrbeta, and therefore we can only compare TOF numbers based on total metal content. Thus, taking this into account together with our theoretical calculations, we would predict that only about 5% of the total Zr in Zrbeta zeolite is active for this reaction. The rest of the Zr is either occupying extraframework positions or is incorporated into the framework forming nonhydrolyzed centers.
Scheme 1: MeerweinPonndorfVerley Reduction of Cyclohexanone with 2-Butanol Catalyzed by SnBeta and ZrBeta
4. Conclusions
The mechanism of the MPV reduction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol catalyzed by Snbeta and Zrbeta zeolites has been theoretically investigated, and complementary catalytic activity tests have been performed to determine the nature of the Snbeta active sites. Comparison of the initial rates measured for the BaeyerVilliger oxidation of adamantanone with H2O2 and the MPV reduction of cyclohexanone with 2-butanol for a series of samples of Snbeta catalysts subjected to different postsynthesis treatments shows that the active sites in the BV and MPV reactions are the same, i.e, the partially hydrolyzed framework SnOH sites.
The computational study shows that, among the seven different ways in which cyclohexanone and 2-butanol can adsorb on the bifunctional Snbeta active site, only those in which the carbonyl group is directly coordinated to the Lewis acid metal center are able to activate the CO bond for the MPV reduction. The reaction pathway with the lowest activation energy, and therefore the most probable, is similar to that reported for the Al(III) and La(III) catalyzed reactions, and consists of three steps: (1) deprotonation of 2-butanol, (2) hydride shift through a six-membered cyclic transition state in which both the ketone and the deprotonated alcohol are directly bonded to the Sn atom, and (3) proton transfer from the catalyst to form cyclohexanol. The role of the hydrolyzed SnOH group in the MPV reaction is not to bind the alcohol molecule through hydrogen bonding as was the case for H2O2 in the BV reaction, but to allow the deprotonation of the alcohol to give an alcoholate intermediate bonded to the tin center and a water molecule.
The mechanism for the Zrbeta catalyzed reaction is equivalent to that found for Snbeta and involves the same initial and intermediate species. The activation energy of the rate-determining step, i.e., the hydride transfer, is about 15 kcal/mol in both cases, and therefore it can be concluded, in agreement with experimental information, that both catalysts are active for the MPV reaction.
Author Information Authors Mercedes Boronat - Instituto de Tecnologa Qumica, UPV-CSIC, Universidad Politcnica de Valencia, Avenida de los Naranjos, s/n, 46022 Valencia, Spain Avelino Corma - Instituto de Tecnologa Qumica, UPV-CSIC, Universidad Politcnica de Valencia, Avenida de los Naranjos, s/n, 46022 Valencia, Spain Michael Renz - Instituto de Tecnologa Qumica, UPV-CSIC, Universidad Politcnica de Valencia, Avenida de los Naranjos, s/n, 46022 Valencia, Spain


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 