I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


2. Dimensional Configuration of Active Sites in B-Based ODHP Catalysts
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To Because boron nitride shows superior selectivity toward olefins, extensive studies have been conducted to expand the B-based catalysts for ODHP (Figure 1). With further study, researchers realized that the spatial distribution of the active sites plays an important role in both surface and gas-phase radical reactions. To summarize and analyze the effect of the spatial configuration of active sites on the catalytic performance, the active sites of B-based catalysts reported to date can be classified into three types: one-dimensional (1-D), (25,41,46,47) two-dimensional (2-D) (4857) and three-dimensional (3-D) dispersed active sites. (5872) Notably, owing to the complexity and dynamic behaviors of catalyst structures and configurations, B-based catalysts often exhibit more than one type of dispersion pattern of the active sites. Therefore, understanding the catalytic properties of each type of active site is essential for the future design of B-based ODHP catalysts.
2.1. 1-D Active Site Located at the Edge of the h-BN Sheet
The 1-D active sites of B-based catalysts are linearly dispersed on the edge of the 2-D h-BN sheets. Boron nitride nanotube (BNNT), which can be regarded as a curled BN layer, is also an example of B-based material with a 1-D active site. In 2016, Hermanss group (25) serendipitously discovered that the metal-free h-BN and BNNTs, generally considered chemically inert materials, offered higher selectivity for propene than that offered by conventional metal oxide catalysts. For instance, h-BN exhibited a propene selectivity of 79% at a propane conversion of 14%. In comparison, the conventional V/SiO2 only showed a propene selectivity of 61% at a propane conversion of 9% (Figure 2a). Moreover, h-BN and BNNT catalysts could maintain a relatively higher propene selectivity with the increase in propane conversion. By contrast, other state-of-the-art ODHP catalysts favored the overoxidation of propane to COx. Notably, the principal byproduct of the ODHP on the BN material was ethene (selectivity of 12%), also a valuable olefin, thus making the ODHP over BN atomically more efficient and profitable and resulting in the release of fewer carbon prints (Figure 2a). Although the product distribution of h-BN and BNNTs was similar, BNNTs exhibited more than 1 order of magnitude higher mass-specific propane consumption rate (molC3H8·kgcat-1·s1) than h-BN. The rate normalized to the surface area of BNNTs (3.6 × 107 molC3H8·m2 s1) was about three times higher than that of h-BN (1.1 × 107 molC3H8·m2·s1). The high reactivity and selectivity of the BN materials and their excellent stability resulted in substantial enhancement in the observed propene productivity, which was comparable to values deemed attractive for commercial implementation and thus drove a new trend of the application of metal-free materials in ODHP.
The theory of the 1-D edge active site was proposed to explain the behavior of 2-D boron materials. (25) A combination of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, attenuated total reflectance infrared, and diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy characterization of the fresh and spent catalysts provided evidence for the oxygen functionalization of the BN sheets when exposed to the ODHP reaction conditions. (41,53,73) Consequently, the 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN (>BOON< ) were initially proposed as the active sites for the ODHP reaction (Figure 2b). Grant et al. (25) conducted kinetic experiments which revealed that the consumption rate of propane followed the partial order of PO2 and the second-order dependence to PC3H8, which was obviously different from the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism over supported VOx catalysts (zero order for O2 and first order for propane). The special kinetic behavior of BN suggested that the oxygen bonded to boron nitride was relatively stable in the presence of propane. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further revealed that the reaction started with the abstraction of the hydrogen from the second carbon of propane. The cleavage of the OO bond created the BO and NO species to accommodate the H and the secondary propyl radicals, respectively. Furthermore, the generated surface-stabilized propyl intermediate (>NOCH(CH3)2) preferentially abstracted a second hydrogen atom from the primary carbon followed by another radical rebound, forming a dipropoxyl intermediate as the adsorbed precursor of the product propene. After the desorption of hydrocarbon species, the hydrogen atom was removed by dioxygen from the surface hydroxyl groups by cleavage of the OH bond, thus regenerating the active site.Thereafter, the catalytic effects of different kinds of 1-D B-based edge active sites, including armchair, B atom-terminated zigzag (zig-B), and nitride-atom-terminated zigzag (zig-N) of BN, on ODHP were also explored by researchers using DFT. (74) The results showed that oxygen atoms are inclined to adsorb dissociatively rather than as molecular dioxygen, leading to the irreversible oxygen functionalization of the fresh edges. On the basis of kinetics and thermodynamics, the zig-B edge was more active than the armchair or zig-N edge site (Figure 2c). Propane dehydrogenation was easier to occur on oxygen-modified edge sites compared to the CC bond cleavage side reactions. (7578)
2.1.1. Performance Promotion Strategies for 1-D BN Edge Active Sites
Despite the excellent selectivity of olefin products, some drawbacks exist for the h-BN materials with 1-D active sites in the ODHP reactions. First, the existence of an induction period indicates that the real BO active site needs to be formed under a certain activation and/or reaction condition. Second, the density of the edge active sites in 2-D materials is low, which limits the further enhancement of catalytic activity on B-based catalysts. Third, the stability of the 1-D B catalyst needs to be improved. The loss of the B component in a water-rich atmosphere and high reaction temperature seriously hinder its further applications. To address these challenges, several performance promotion strategies were proposed.
The preoxygen modification of the edge sites is demonstrated efficient to improve the ODHP performance and reduce the induction period. Shi et al. (41) designed edge-hydroxylated boron nitride (denoted as BNOH) using a sodium-assisted high-temperature steam activation process achieving high activity and selectivity toward propylene (up to 80.2%) at a higher propane conversion (20.6%, Figure 3a,b). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and B K-edge electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) analysis with a high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) STEM mode showed that the steam activation generated more BO edges owing to the lattice relaxations and distortions at the edge of boron nitride, significantly increasing the density of 1-D active sites (Figure 3a). The XPS and 2-D 11B multiple quantum magic-angle spinning (MAS) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) observed two types of B oxygen coordination of BOB and BOH (Figure 3a), which were attributed to the oxygen functionalization of the edge sites (Based on current understandings, most of these species may belong to amorphous boron oxides formed in the pretreatment procedure.) In another case, boronoxygennitrogen nanotubes (BONNTs) enriched with OO species were prepared by an effective progressive substitution strategy, leading to improved olefin production. (47)
To improve the density of the edge sites, an efficient strategy is to reduce the size of the BN nanosheet and increase the edge/surface ratio. Eswaramoorthy and co-workers (46) developed a high-surface-area BN catalyst with a BET-specific surface area of 1380 m2 g1 by the reaction of boric acid and dicyandiamide, which far exceeded the commercial bulk BN (48 m2 g1). It could achieve a propane conversion of 52% with a 53% selectivity to propene and 70% selectivity to total olefins. However, the operation time of this catalytic system was measured to be only 5 h, owing to the facile oxidation of undercoordinated surface BN bonds under the oxidative atmosphere. The lifetime of the catalyst could be extended to more than 100 h by the addition of ammonia into the reactants. The BN nanosheets prepared by the reaction of boric acid and urea mixtures with a molar ratio of 1:48 at 1000 C for 5 h under an N2 atmosphere (79) contain a larger number of effective 1-D sites than bulk BN, achieving unprecedented 100% selectivity toward ethylene at 10% ethane conversion and a considerable olefin yield at higher conversions, which were similar to those of state-of-the-art PtSn catalysts.
In addition to creating abundant 1-D edge active sites, the aggregation of active components into 1-D shaped materials is an effective strengthening strategy for BN catalysts. Lus group (80,81) successfully synthesized a 1-D nanofiber catalyst by doping silicon dioxide (SiO2) with h-BN and boron oxide respectively using the electrospinning technology (Figure 3c). A propene selectivity of 85.1% could be realized on an h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst when the propane conversion was 12.4% (Figure 3d). A significant olefin productivity of 24.9 golefins gBN1 h1 was more than five times higher than that on the currently reported bulk ODHP catalysts. This research provided a new methodology for the application of the B-based catalyst with a 1-D fiber structure to achieve more efficient preparation of propene in the ODHP process.
Regarding the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites, an h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalyst was designed. The strong metal oxidesupport interaction (SMOSI) effect between In2O3 NPs and h-BN not only strengthened the interlayer force of h-BN like a pin but also weakened the affinity of the BN bond to O·. With In2O3 as the structure promoter, the catalytic stability of h-BNIn2O3 was extended nearly five times that of pristine h-BN. (57)


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 