<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
The concepts of oxidation began with Lavoisier's disproving of the phlogiston theory in 1773. One usually defines two groups of reactions namely homolytic and heterolytic. The first type involves radicals formed by homolytic * Corresponding author. cleavage of interatomic bonds. The second type involves an active oxygen compound or a metal ion which oxidizes the starting material in a two electrons transfer reaction. The reduced oxidiz- ing agent must be reoxidized in a second step.
The mechanism involves the pres- ence of two types of distinct active sites: an active cationic site which oxidises the substrate and another site active for dioxygen reduction.
An adequate structure of the material should also facilitate both electrons and oxygen species transfer.
It clearly appears that a single and isolated metallic ion site cannot take into account all the necessary transformations involved in the reac- tion since several steps as replenishing of oxy- gen anion vacancies, H atoms extraction and electrons transfer are concerned.
The homolytic fragmentation of a C-H bond in the coordination sphere of the acceptor metal ion may occur via a transfer of the hydrogen to the oxygen ion at -2 oxidation state. This is a concerted action with homolytic breaking of metal-oxygen bond which transfers one elec- tron to the metal.
Depending on the nature, oxidation state of the metal ion and its environment (coordination structure), the metal-oxygen bonds may be more or less polarized and therefore the oxygen ion may exhibit electrophilic or nucleophilic proper- ties.
Case (a) (nucleophilic character) will inter- vene in activation of a C-H bond in o of the double bond or of aromatic ring.
Case (b) (weakly polarized) will favor con- certed homolytic-type reaction as for allylic de- hydrogenation of olefins.
Case (c) (electrophilic character) allows one a direct attack of a double bond (oxidative breaking).
Such a concept has been introduced by Boudart on metals. It has been introduced for oxides in the late seventies by Volta et al. [ 1 ], or early eighties by Tatibouet and Germain [2], Haber et al. [3], etc and it is widely accepted at present.
For instance in the work by Volta et al.,it was shown that single crystal type samples of MoO 3 exhibiting different relative amounts of the different faces (010) basal, (100) side and (101) and (10-1) apical exhibited different activ- ity and selectivity in the oxidation of propene to acrolein and CO x [4].
The originality of the work was to synthesize crystals of various shapes by epitaxial growth via oxyhydrolysis of MoC15 inserted between the layers of graphite.
A more precise analysis and characterization of the MoO 3 crystallites shape have shown that in fact the better plane for propene oxidation to acrolein corresponds to the (lk0) plane as shown in Fig. 2 [5].
It is then suggested that the propene activation (H abstraction) into the w-al- Table 1 Structure sensitivity of the different faces of MoO 3 crystals in olefin oxidation at 380C ([4]) Reactant olefin products Relative selectivity per faces Reactant olefin Products Basal (010) Side (100) Apical (101), (1) Propene Acrolein 0.06 2.3 CO, CO 2 1 0 But- 1 -ene Butadiene 3 9.3 CO, CO 2 1 0 Isobutene Methacrolein 0 0.6 Acetone 0.06 0 CO, CO 2 0 1 0.7 0 2 0 0.1 0.06 0 6
Such clusters of FeO 6 octahedra also exist in other inorganic compounds. For instance they exist in ilvaite (CaFe 3 + FeZ2 Si207OOH) where silicate layers replace phosphate anions and FeO 6 octahedra form ribbons. It is interesting to note that such material is active and selective for the reaction although to a lesser extent than the previous hydroxyphosphates [21].
The lower catalytic behaviour may be due to the presence of Ca 2+ cations in the structure and/or to the silicate counter anion whose basicity in the sense of Pearson is different from that of the phosphate anion and/or the infinite size of FeO 6 octahedra clusters.
One very usually uses silica or carborundum as a binder or as a coating to limit attrition.
In some cases the chemical effect of the support will be determining for catalytic proper- ties. For example several oxides (V20 s, MoO 3, Re2OT, CrO3...) deposited on several oxide supports (SiO 2, TiO 2, A1203) were shown by Wachs et al. [22] to exhibit very different cat- alytic properties in methanol oxidation reactions as summarized in Table 2.
An important parameter for the impregnation method is the pH of the molybdate solution. As a matter of fact the following equilibrium has been well established: MovO64 + 4HzO , 7MoO 2- + 8H +
The monomeric tetrahedral MoO4 z- species is favored at higher pH and vice versa for the polymeric heptamolybdate anion.
Moreover one defines the so-called isoelectric point of the support (ieps) or zero point charge (zpc) of a support by the pH value for which the surface charge turns from anionic to cationic, i.e. will allow cations or anions from the liquid phase to be adsorbed, respectively.
One has values of 2 for silica, 5-6 for titania, 8 for alumina, etc.
This clearly shows that the size of the adsorbed anion (monomeric or polymeric) adsorbed on a support will depend on the ieps (zpc) value, i.e. on the support itself.
Above the ieps value, the surface of a particular oxide is negatively charged and vice versa below.
The anion will thus be adsorbed for a pH value below the ieps value and as said above a lower pH value will favor polymolybdate anionic species.
The former band may be assigned to tetrahedral monomeric species and the latter one to octahedral poly- meric (polymolybdate) species.
The formation of the former species was described by the reaction in Scheme 2.
Catalytic properties were studied for two re- actions; namely isopropanol conversion and propene partial oxidation.
The first reaction is a test reaction which allows the characterization of the acidic, basic or redox properties of a catalyst.
One gets dehydration to propene or di-isopropylether for an acid catalyst, acetone for a basic catalyst in the absence of air and acetone and water for a redox type catalyst in the presence of air.
The experimental results at 100C clearly show that at low Mo loadings acidic features are favored while redox features are favored at higher loadings.
This indicates that monomeric MoO 2- species are acidic (pre- sumably as in silicomolybdic acid) while poly- meric species exhibit redox properties (see Fig. 7).
The second reaction studied is propene oxida- tion at 380C (see Fig. 8).
Weak activity was observed for low Mo loading.
At higher Mo loading propanal was the major product while acrolein was also observed.
At very high Mo loadings and for MoO 3 one gets almost exclu- 2,0 1,5 Propana ' 1,0 0 o,5 Acrolein " 0,0 ,,,,,0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Mo loading (wt %) Fig. 8. Propene oxidation to acrolein (nucleophilic attack) and propanal (electrophilic attack) at 400C on MoO 3/SiO 2 catalysts versus Mo loading (from [23]).
Propanal is known to stem from propene by an electrophilic attack while acrolein corresponds rather to a nucleophilic attack.
These results indicate that monomeric MoO 2- species does not oxidize propene in our condi- tions while polymeric (polymolybdate) species exhibit redox properties, with 0 2- species be- ing rather electrophilic.
Molybdenum oxide ex- hibits redox properties with 0 2- species being rather nucleophilic.
One can thus realise how the size of the active site is important in oxida- tion catalysis.
This is typical of structure sensi- tive reaction.
Such a catalyst is well known for several reactions, such as o-xylene oxidation to phthalic anhydride and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NO by ammonia.
The anatase form of TiO 2 appears to be better than the rutile form.
Such catalysts with 1 and 8 wt% V2Os/anatase was prepared by RhSne-Poulenc (S  10 m 2 g-1) for an exercise of characterization by 25 different European laboratories.
All results are assembled in a special issue of Catalysis Today published in May 1994, Vol. 20, no. 1.
Surface vanadium species were observed to exist in three different forms: monomeric VO43- species,polymeric vanadate species and V205 crystal-
The following conclusions could be drawn considering that a polyvanadate species occu- pies a ca circular zone of a diameter of 0.38 nm per V atom (i.e. 0.165 nm 2) and an isolated monovanadate species 0.66 nm per V atom (i.e. 0.43 nm2):
(i) Monomeric VO 3- species exhibit acidic character with OH groups (BriSnsted acidity) and result in propene formation for isopropanol conversion and in total oxidation for o-xylene oxidation.
Maximum coverage equals 0.43 wt% V205.
(ii) Polyvanadate surface species exhibit re- dox properties, namely give rise to acetone for isopropanol conversion and phthalic anhydride for o-xylene oxidation.
(iii) V205 crystallites exhibit low activity for o-xylene conversion and high selectivity in total oxidation.
The size of the polyvanadate species in solu- tion corresponds to V3093-, V402 with tetrahe- drally coordinated V at pH = 7 and 4.5 respec- tively and V10068 - or V10028H 5- with octahe- drally coordinated V at pH = 2.5.
Deposition of such polyvanadates of different sizes was per- formed carefully on "y-A1203 support and their initial structures depicted above were shown to remain stable even after calcination in flowing air at 500C and to be only partly modified after catalytic reaction of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane in the 350 to 450C range.
Moreover in such cases, the selectivity towards propene was observed to be the same at the same con- version level, indicating that in this size domain of polyvanadate species the catalytic selectivity was not changed, only the activity was observed to increase with vanadium loading [27].
In a study of VO 2+ and Cr 3+ cations ex- changed or impregnated on the surface of zirco- nium hydrogenophosphates and compared to vanadyl pyrophosphate and chromium(III) phos- phate, the best catalytic properties for ethane to ethylene oxidative dehydrogenation reaction at 500C were observed when the material present either continuous chains of vanadyl or CrO 6 octahedra as in (VO)2P207 and a CrPO 4 re- spectively or chains of limited size [28].
By comparison with bulk oxides exhibiting similar environment, it was suggested as for supported VO and CrO x species on zirconium hy- drogenophosphates that the catalytic perfor- mances were related to the stronger basic char- acter of PO 3- anions with respect to 0 2- an- ions.
Some general conclusions may be drawn from this general presentation:(i) Oxidation reactions in gas-phase heteroge- neous catalysis usually proceed via Mars and van Krevelen mechanism, i.e. involve lattice 12
J.C. Vedrine et al. / Catalysis Today 33 (1997) 3-13
oxygen ions.
Such ions exhibit an electrophilic or a nucleophilic character and therefore present different catalytic properties since the elec- trophilic oxygen interacts with a double bond or an aromatic ring while the nucleophilic oxygen interacts with a C-H bond in o of the double bond or of an aromatic ring.
(ii) Oxidation reactions are structure sensitive and therefore greatly depend on the local and surface structure of the oxide catalysts.
A pecu- liar fitting between stereochemistry of the solid surface and of the reactant molecule(s) is to be obtained to get the best catalyst.
Parameters such as reducibility and reoxidability features of the oxides are very important for catalytic reac- tions.
(iii) Active sites for oxidation reactions ap- pear to be molecular 'inorganic ensembles' of metallic oxide atoms whose size greatly influ- ences the catalytic properties.
In some examples the number of atoms constituting the active sites could be established.
For instance double trimers of face sharing FeO 6 octahedra are particularly active and selective for oxidative dehydrogena- tion of isobutyric acid to methacrylic acid on iron hydroxyphosphates; ensembles of four dimers of VO 6 octahedra are suggested to be the active sites for butane oxidation to maleic anhy- dride in vanadium pyrophosphate catalysts.
Usually monomeric species as MoO42- or VO43- exhibit acidic feature and then total oxidation properties.
At variance low size polymeric species exhibit better selectivity for many par- tial oxidation reactions than large size species or bulk-type oxide.
It is thus clear that the size of these 'inorganic molecular ensembles' as active sites is important depending on the reaction considered and the support used.
The characteri- zation of such 'clusters' lying on the surface is rather difficult and the above statements for supported oxide catalysts are only qualitative.
To better characterize such clusters, techniques as XANES (sensitive to local symmetry type), EXAFS (sensitive to the coordination number and nearby element distances) and radial elec- tron distribution (RED) of X-ray diffraction peaks (sensitive to the nearby element dis- tances) have to be used.
Already data have been obtained for MoO 3 and V205 deposited on SiO 2, A1203 or TiO 2 support.
This holds true only if one has one type of cluster species to analyse.
The reader interested may read a chapter de- voted to XANES and EXAFS techniques by Moraweck in the book by Imelik and Vdrine (1988 and 1994) ([29,30]).
(iv) Oxidation catalysts have to be considered with a dynamic view under reaction conditions.
This is related to the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism and also to the mobility of the oxide lattice.
This latter phenomenon results from the wetting effect particularly for multicomponent and supported oxide catalysts.
It follows that for many catalysts a certain time on stream is nec- essary before the catalyst reaches its steady state.
It is frequent that in an industrial plant a steady state is reached only after one or two hundreds hours, the catalysts lasting several years before having to be replaced.
For simple catalysts as doped vanadyl pyrophosphates used for butane oxidation to maleic anhydride the right size of the active sites (e.g. tetramers of vanadyl dimers) is monitored by the reactants in catalytic reaction conditions leading to the right VS+/V 4+ ratio, by the preparation procedure to change the material morphology (the (100) face of (VO)2P20 7 being developed), and by the adequate addition of additive elements which regulate the site size and VS+/V 4+ ion ratio.
The view of an oxidation catalyst as dynamical under catalytic reaction conditions is essential for our understanding of its functioning.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. The challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are related to the complex nature of the reaction mechanisms, which include C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction. The interplay between these factors collectively influences the process efficiency. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by allowing for the stabilization of specific active sites that favor desired reactions over undesired side reactions. The size of the active sites, as well as their electronic and geometric properties, significantly impact the selectivity and conversion rates in ODH reactions.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
烷烃的氧化脱氢（ODH）涉及各种催化剂，包括块状金属氧化物和支撑系统。实现高选择性和转化率的挑战与反应机制的复杂性有关，包括C-H键活化、M-烷基中间体和2H-抽提。这些因素的相互作用共同影响过程效率。位点隔离在解决选择性问题中起着至关重要的作用，它允许稳定特定的活性位点，使所需的反应优先于不希望的副反应。活性位点的大小以及它们的电子和几何性质对ODH反应的选择性和转化率有重大影响。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
