<quotes>

[1] "While it is fairly straightforward to predict the relative chemical reactivity of pure metals, obtaining similar structure-performance relationships for alloys is more challenging."
[2] "The central feature of the model is that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements in the alloy, and therefore the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site, which is easily calculated from tabulated parameters, is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site."
[3] "The significance of the d-band model is that for pure monatomic metals it has a predictive capacity, and it has been used to understand (predict) the relative chemical activity of transition and noble metals."
[4] "The main difference between pure metals and alloys is that in alloys additional factors such as the transfer of electronic charge from one element to another, i.e., alloy-specific changes in the local d-band filling might, in addition to the overlap between d-orbitals, affect the position of the d-band center."
[5] "The possibility of the transfer of charge from one alloy element to another further complicates the physical picture, and it is difficult to devise a universal model that can capture the general behavior of alloys."
[6] "The alloys were selected to cover a broad range of electronically different elements including 3d (Ni, Cu) metals interacting with 4d (Ag, Ru), 5d (Au, Pt), and sp (Sn) metals."
[7] "The formation of the alloy catalysts was verified using x-ray absorption spectroscopy as discussed below."
[8] "The measured Pt L3 XANES spectra for the pure Pt and the Pt alloys are shown in Fig. 3a and b."
[9] "The oscillator strengths, which are basically the computational equivalent of XANES, are shown in Fig. 3a and b."
[10] "The number of localized d states is proportional to the integrated area under the measured normalized spectra or calculated oscillator strength."
[11] "The analysis of the measured Pt L3 XANES spectra showed that: (i) the measured spectra is a good representation of the ground state d-DOS above the Fermi level projected on Pt atoms, (ii) the formation of Pt alloys results in a change in the width (the spread around the Fermi level) of the d-band localized on Pt due to the hybridization between the Pt d states and the valence states of the guest elements in the Pt alloys, and (iii) there is no significant charge transfer to or from the Pt d states."
[12] "The second important consequence is that for a fixed site geometry (i.e. the distance between atoms and the number of atoms that form the site), the width of the d-band localized on the site, and therefore the d-band center and the local chemical reactivity, is a unique function of only the spatial extents of the orbitals of the atoms that form the site."
[13] "The advantage of establishing relationships between the adsorption energies and the spatial extent of d-orbitals (r dm ) is that the values of r dm are unique properties of pure metals and are often tabulated or can be computed easily."
[14] "The picture that emerges from these studies is that when two transition metals are brought together to form an alloy, the change in the position of the local d-band center (and therefore the local chemical reactivity) is to a large degree governed only by the width of the localized d-band, which is a unique function of the alloy geometry (the bond distance between the alloy atoms) and the spatial extent of d-orbitals of the metal atoms that form the alloy."
[15] "Since the bond distance between constituent elements in alloys can be predicted by for example assuming that it is equal to the addition of atomic radii of the elements that form the alloy, and the spatial extent of orbitals in alloys is known, the position of the center of the d-band for various sites in alloys and therefore the chemical reactivity of these sites can also be predicted easily."
[16] "It is also important to address the ambiguity of the term charge transfer from one element in an alloy to another."
[17] "In the analysis above, we have referred to the transfer of d electrons from one element to another in terms of a uniquely defined, measured or calculated, area under the oscillator strength curve, establishing that there is no significant transfer of d-electrons among constituent elements in alloys."
[18] "This definition of charge transfer is universal since it is independent of the cut-off radius over which the charge is integrated."
[19] "It is also possible to define the localized charge in terms of the partitioning of the ground state electron density among the atoms in the alloy."
[20] "When we perform Bader analysis on the DFT-calculated electron density of the model alloys we find that there are shifts in the electron density from one element to another as shown in Fig 5."
[21] "Projection of various local orbitals on local volumes centered in particular alloy atoms, shows that the main contributors to the charge transfer are s/p electrons."
[22] "It can be shown that small changes in the filling of s/p bands affect the adsorption energy much less significantly than the above-discussed changes in the center of the d-band."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity of the alloy sites. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements, but the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site. This allows for the prediction of the relative chemical reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. Innovative strategies can be developed by understanding the relationship between the alloy's geometric structure and the electronic properties of the d-band, which can be used to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.过渡金属合金的几何和电子效应可以通过改变合金位点的局部电子结构和化学反应性来协同影响催化性能。合金中d轨道的杂化不会导致元素间显著的电荷转移，但投影在位点上的局部d态密度的宽度是描述位点化学反应性的一个很好的指标。这使得可以根据合金位点的几何结构和电子性质预测其相对化学反应性。通过理解合金的几何结构与d带电子性质之间的关系，可以开发创新策略，用于设计比传统单金属催化剂更高效、更选择性、更可调的催化系统。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
