<quotes>

[1] "While it is fairly straightforward to predict the relative chemical reactivity of pure metals, obtaining similar structure-performance relationships for alloys is more challenging."
[2] "The central feature of the model is that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements in the alloy, and therefore the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site, which is easily calculated from tabulated parameters, is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site."
[3] "The significance of the d-band model is that for pure monatomic metals it has a predictive capacity, and it has been used to understand (predict) the relative chemical activity of transition and noble metals."
[4] "The main difference between pure metals and alloys is that in alloys additional factors such as the transfer of electronic charge from one element to another, i.e., alloy-specific changes in the local d-band filling might, in addition to the overlap between d-orbitals, affect the position of the d-band center."
[5] "The possibility of the transfer of charge from one alloy element to another further complicates the physical picture, and it is difficult to devise a universal model that can capture the general behavior of alloys."
[6] "The experimental analysis was performed on a number of Pt (Pt/Cu, Pt/Ru, and Pt/Sn) and Ni (Ni/Sn, Ni/Au, Ni/Ag) alloys."
[7] "The alloys were selected to cover a broad range of electronically different elements including 3d (Ni, Cu) metals interacting with 4d (Ag, Ru), 5d (Au, Pt), and sp (Sn) metals."
[8] "The formation of the alloy catalysts was verified using x-ray absorption spectroscopy as discussed below."
[9] "The measured Pt L3 XANES spectra for the pure Pt and the Pt alloys are shown in Fig. 3a and b."
[10] "The oscillator strengths, which are basically the computational equivalent of XANES, are shown in Fig. 3a and b."
[11] "The number of localized d states is proportional to the integrated area under the measured normalized spectra or calculated oscillator strength."
[12] "The analysis of the measured Pt L3 XANES spectra showed that: (i) the measured spectra is a good representation of the ground state d-DOS above the Fermi level projected on Pt atoms, (ii) the formation of Pt alloys results in a change in the width (the spread around the Fermi level) of the d-band localized on Pt due to the hybridization between the Pt d states and the valence states of the guest elements in the Pt alloys, and (iii) there is no significant charge transfer to or from the Pt d states."
[13] "The second important consequence is that for a fixed site geometry (i.e. the distance between atoms and the number of atoms that form the site), the width of the d-band localized on the site, and therefore the d-band center and the local chemical reactivity, is a unique function of only the spatial extents of the orbitals of the atoms that form the site."
[14] "The fact that the adsorption energies for the adsorption on the Pt surface sites scale as r 3/2 dm , where r dm is the spatial extent of d orbitals of metals which are in contact with the Pt surface sites, is not surprising since according to the tight bonding approximation (Atomic Sphere Approximation) for a fixed geometry (bond distance between the elements that form an alloy) the d-band width projected on a given atom in an alloy is proportional to r 3/2 dm ."
[15] "The picture that emerges from these studies is that when two transition metals are brought together to form an alloy, the change in the position of the local d-band center (and therefore the local chemical reactivity) is to a large degree governed only by the width of the localized d-band, which is a unique function of the alloy geometry (the bond distance between the alloy atoms) and the spatial extent of d-orbitals of the metal atoms that form the alloy."
[16] "Since the bond distance between constituent elements in alloys can be predicted by for example assuming that it is equal to the addition of atomic radii of the elements that form the alloy, and the spatial extent of orbitals in alloys is known, the position of the center of the d-band for various sites in alloys and therefore the chemical reactivity of these sites can also be predicted easily."
[17] "These relationships were also recognized in recent contributions of Kitchin et al. where DFT calculations were used to analyze a large number of alloys."
[18] "The advantage of establishing relationships between the adsorption energies and the spatial extent of d-orbitals (r dm ) is that the values of r dm are unique properties of pure metals and are often tabulated or can be computed easily."
[19] "It is important to recognize that the impact of the local geometry on the width of the d-band, localized on an atom in an alloy, can also be evaluated easily based on the tight bonding approximation."
[20] "It has been shown that the width of the d-band is proportional to 1/d5, where d is the length of the bond between the atom of interest and the atoms surrounding it in the alloy."
[21] "The consequence of (i) and (ii) is that there exist a universal relationship between the width of the localized d-band (i.e., the spread around the Fermi level) and the local d-band center and therefore the local chemical reactivity."
[22] "While the partitioning of the calculated ground state electron density is consistent with the experimental finding that there is no transfer of d-electrons from one alloy element to another, it shows that there are shifts in the s/p electron density."
[23] "Newns-Anderson analysis showed that the impact of the shifts in the s/p electron density on the chemical reactivity of metal atoms in an alloy is significantly lower than the impact of the changes in the center of the d-band."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys influence catalytic performance by affecting the chemical reactivity of the alloy. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements, but the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site. The d-band model, which relates the local electronic structure of a catalytic site on a metal to its chemical reactivity, has predictive capacity for pure monatomic metals. However, in alloys, additional factors such as the transfer of electronic charge from one element to another affect the position of the d-band center. Innovative strategies can be developed by understanding the impact of alloying on the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity, which can be predicted by the width of the localized d-band, a unique function of the alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals of the metal atoms that form the alloy. This allows for the prediction of the chemical reactivity of various sites in alloys, leading to the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.过渡金属合金中的几何和电子效应通过影响合金的化学反应性来影响催化性能。合金中d轨道的杂化不会导致构成元素之间发生显著的电荷转移，但投影在位点上的局部d态密度的宽度是描述位点化学反应性的一个极佳指标。d带模型将金属催化位点的局部电子结构与其化学反应性联系起来，对于纯单原子金属具有预测能力。然而，在合金中，从一个元素到另一个元素的电子电荷转移等额外因素会影响d带中心的位置。通过理解合金化对局部电子结构和化学反应性的影响，可以开发创新策略，这是预测局部d带宽度的函数，即合金几何形状和形成合金的金属原子d轨道的空间范围的唯一函数。这使得能够预测合金中各种位点的化学反应性，从而设计出比传统单金属催化剂更高效、更选择性、更可调的催化系统。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
