<quotes>

[1] "While it is fairly straightforward to predict the relative chemical reactivity of pure metals, obtaining similar structure-performance relationships for alloys is more challenging."
[2] "The central feature of the model is that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements in the alloy, and therefore the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site, which is easily calculated from tabulated parameters, is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site."
[3] "The significance of the d-band model is that for pure monatomic metals it has a predictive capacity, and it has been used to understand (predict) the relative chemical activity of transition and noble metals."
[4] "The main difference between pure metals and alloys is that in alloys additional factors such as the transfer of electronic charge from one element to another, i.e., alloy-specific changes in the local d-band filling might, in addition to the overlap between d-orbitals, affect the position of the d-band center."
[5] "The possibility of the transfer of charge from one alloy element to another further complicates the physical picture, and it is difficult to devise a universal model that can capture the general behavior of alloys."
[6] "The alloys were selected to cover a broad range of electronically different elements including 3d (Ni, Cu) metals interacting with 4d (Ag, Ru), 5d (Au, Pt), and sp (Sn) metals."
[7] "The results for the Ni alloys have been shown in our previous contributions."
[8] "The formation of the alloy catalysts was verified using x-ray absorption spectroscopy as discussed below."
[9] "The calculated spectra for all alloys are adjusted (shifted in energy by a constant value) so that the calculated edge onset energy for pure Pt corresponds to the experimentally measured edge onset energy of pure Pt L 3 edge."
[10] "The analysis of the measured Pt L3 XANES spectra showed that: (i) the measured spectra is a good representation of the ground state d-DOS above the Fermi level projected on Pt atoms, (ii) the formation of Pt alloys results in a change in the width (the spread around the Fermi level) of the d-band localized on Pt due to the hybridization between the Pt d states and the valence states of the guest elements in the Pt alloys, and (iii) there is no significant charge transfer to or from the Pt d states."
[11] "The second important consequence is that for a fixed site geometry (i.e. the distance between atoms and the number of atoms that form the site), the width of the d-band localized on the site, and therefore the d-band center and the local chemical reactivity, is a unique function of only the spatial extents of the orbitals of the atoms that form the site."
[12] "The advantage of establishing relationships between the adsorption energies and the spatial extent of d-orbitals (r dm ) is that the values of r dm are unique properties of pure metals and are often tabulated or can be computed easily."
[13] "The picture that emerges from these studies is that when two transition metals are brought together to form an alloy, the change in the position of the local d-band center (and therefore the local chemical reactivity) is to a large degree governed only by the width of the localized d-band, which is a unique function of the alloy geometry (the bond distance between the alloy atoms) and the spatial extent of d-orbitals of the metal atoms that form the alloy."
[14] "Since the bond distance between constituent elements in alloys can be predicted by for example assuming that it is equal to the addition of atomic radii of the elements that form the alloy, and the spatial extent of orbitals in alloys is known, the position of the center of the d-band for various sites in alloys and therefore the chemical reactivity of these sites can also be predicted easily."
[15] "The main contributors to the charge transfer are s/p electrons."
[16] "It can be shown that small changes in the filling of s/p bands affect the adsorption energy much less significantly than the above-discussed changes in the center of the d-band."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance by affecting the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity of the alloy sites. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements, but it does change the width of the local density of d-states, which is a good descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site. This allows for the prediction of the impact of alloying on the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. Innovative strategies can be developed by understanding the relationships between the geometric structure of alloys and their chemical reactivity, which can lead to the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.过渡金属合金中的几何和电子效应协同影响催化性能，通过影响合金位点的局部电子结构和化学反应性。合金中d轨道的杂化不会在组成元素之间导致显著的电荷转移，但会改变局部d态密度的宽度，这是位点化学反应性的一个良好描述符。这使得能够预测合金化对局部电子结构和化学反应性的影响。通过理解合金几何结构与其化学反应性之间的关系，可以开发创新策略，设计出比传统单金属催化剂更高效、更选择性、更可调的催化系统。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
