<quotes>

[1] "While it is fairly straightforward to predict the relative chemical reactivity of pure metals, obtaining similar structure-performance relationships for alloys is more challenging."
[2] "The central feature of the model is that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements in the alloy, and therefore the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site, which is easily calculated from tabulated parameters, is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site."
[3] "The significance of the d-band model is that for pure monatomic metals it has a predictive capacity, and it has been used to understand (predict) the relative chemical activity of transition and noble metals."
[4] "The main difference between pure metals and alloys is that in alloys additional factors such as the transfer of electronic charge from one element to another, i.e., alloy-specific changes in the local d-band filling might, in addition to the overlap between d-orbitals, affect the position of the d-band center."
[5] "The possibility of the transfer of charge from one alloy element to another further complicates the physical picture, and it is difficult to devise a universal model that can capture the general behavior of alloys."
[6] "The alloys were selected to cover a broad range of electronically different elements including 3d (Ni, Cu) metals interacting with 4d (Ag, Ru), 5d (Au, Pt), and sp (Sn) metals."
[7] "The formation of the alloy catalysts was verified using x-ray absorption spectroscopy as discussed below."
[8] "The measured Pt L3 XANES spectra for the pure Pt and the Pt alloys are shown in Fig. 3a and b."
[9] "The oscillator strengths, which are basically the computational equivalent of XANES, are shown in Fig. 3a and b."
[10] "The number of localized d states is proportional to the integrated area under the measured normalized spectra or calculated oscillator strength."
[11] "The analysis of the measured Pt L3 XANES spectra showed that: (i) the measured spectra is a good representation of the ground state d-DOS above the Fermi level projected on Pt atoms, (ii) the formation of Pt alloys results in a change in the width (the spread around the Fermi level) of the d-band localized on Pt due to the hybridization between the Pt d states and the valence states of the guest elements in the Pt alloys, and (iii) there is no significant charge transfer to or from the Pt d states."
[12] "The second important consequence is that for a fixed site geometry (i.e. the distance between atoms and the number of atoms that form the site), the width of the d-band localized on the site, and therefore the d-band center and the local chemical reactivity, is a unique function of only the spatial extents of the orbitals of the atoms that form the site."
[13] "The advantage of establishing relationships between the adsorption energies and the spatial extent of d-orbitals (r dm ) is that the values of r dm are unique properties of pure metals and are often tabulated or can be computed easily."
[14] "The picture that emerges from these studies is that when two transition metals are brought together to form an alloy, the change in the position of the local d-band center (and therefore the local chemical reactivity) is to a large degree governed only by the width of the localized d-band, which is a unique function of the alloy geometry (the bond distance between the alloy atoms) and the spatial extent of d-orbitals of the metal atoms that form the alloy."
[15] "Since the bond distance between constituent elements in alloys can be predicted by for example assuming that it is equal to the addition of atomic radii of the elements that form the alloy, and the spatial extent of orbitals in alloys is known, the position of the center of the d-band for various sites in alloys and therefore the chemical reactivity of these sites can also be predicted easily."
[16] "The main contributors to the charge transfer are s/p electrons."
[17] "It can be shown that small changes in the filling of s/p bands affect the adsorption energy much less significantly than the above-discussed changes in the center of the d-band."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance by affecting the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity of the alloy sites. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements, but it changes the width of the local density of d-states, which is a good descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site. The d-band model, which has predictive capacity for pure monatomic metals, becomes more complex in alloys due to additional factors such as alloy-specific changes in the local d-band filling. However, by considering the spatial extents of the orbitals of the atoms that form the site and the alloy geometry, the chemical reactivity of sites in alloys can be predicted. Innovative strategies can be developed by understanding these relationships, which can lead to the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.过渡金属合金中的几何和电子效应协同影响催化性能，通过影响合金位点的局部电子结构和化学反应性。合金中d轨道的杂化不会在组成元素之间产生显著的电荷转移，但它会改变局部d态密度的宽度，这是描述位点化学反应性的好指标。d带模型对于纯单原子金属具有预测能力，并已被用来理解（预测）过渡金属和贵金属的相对化学活性。然而，合金中的额外因素，如从一个元素到另一个元素的电子电荷转移，即合金特异性变化的局部d带填充，可能除了d轨道之间的重叠之外，还会影响d带中心的位置。通过考虑形成位点的原子的轨道的空间范围和合金几何形状，可以预测合金中位点的化学反应性。通过理解这些关系，可以开发创新策略，这将导致设计更高效、更选择性和更可调的催化系统，其性能超过传统的单金属催化剂。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
