<quotes>

[1] "While it is fairly straightforward to predict the relative chemical reactivity of pure metals, obtaining similar structure-performance relationships for alloys is more challenging."
[2] "In this contribution we present experimental analysis supported with quantum chemical DFT calculations which allowed us to propose a simple, physically transparent model to predict the impact of alloying on the local electronic structure of different sites in alloys and on the local chemical reactivity."
[3] "The central feature of the model is that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements in the alloy, and therefore the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site, which is easily calculated from tabulated parameters, is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site."
[4] "The significance of the d-band model is that for pure monatomic metals it has a predictive capacity, and it has been used to understand (predict) the relative chemical activity of transition and noble metals."
[5] "The main difference between pure metals and alloys is that in alloys additional factors such as the transfer of electronic charge from one element to another, i.e., alloy-specific changes in the local d-band filling might, in addition to the overlap between d-orbitals, affect the position of the d-band center."
[6] "The possibility of the transfer of charge from one alloy element to another further complicates the physical picture, and it is difficult to devise a universal model that can capture the general behavior of alloys."
[7] "The results for the Ni alloys have been shown in our previous contributions."
[8] "To understand the origin of the 3d-metal-induced shifts in the position of the local d-band center and therefore in the chemical reactivity of Pt sites, we first discuss various mechanisms that can affect the position of the d-band center localized on an atom in metal alloys."
[9] "One critical consequence is that since upon the formation of alloys the local d-charge on alloy atoms is preserved, the local d-band center and therefore the chemical reactivity of the atoms in different alloys are mainly functions of the local d-band width (the spread of localized d-states around the Fermi level)."
[10] "The second important consequence is that for a fixed site geometry (i.e. the distance between atoms and the number of atoms that form the site), the width of the d-band localized on the site, and therefore the d-band center and the local chemical reactivity, is a unique function of only the spatial extents of the orbitals of the atoms that form the site."
[11] "The picture that emerges from these studies is that when two transition metals are brought together to form an alloy, the change in the position of the local d-band center (and therefore the local chemical reactivity) is to a large degree governed only by the width of the localized d-band, which is a unique function of the alloy geometry (the bond distance between the alloy atoms) and the spatial extent of d-orbitals of the metal atoms that form the alloy."
[12] "Since the bond distance between constituent elements in alloys can be predicted by for example assuming that it is equal to the addition of atomic radii of the elements that form the alloy, and the spatial extent of orbitals in alloys is known, the position of the center of the d-band for various sites in alloys and therefore the chemical reactivity of these sites can also be predicted easily."
[13] "This definition of charge transfer is universal since it is independent of the cut-off radius over which the charge is integrated."
[14] "It can be shown that small changes in the filling of s/p bands affect the adsorption energy much less significantly than the above-discussed changes in the center of the d-band."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Predicting the chemical reactivity of pure metals is relatively simple, but doing the same for alloys is more challenging. A model has been proposed that uses experimental analysis and quantum chemical DFT calculations to predict the impact of alloying on the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity of different sites in alloys. The model's central feature is that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between the constituent elements, and the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site. The d-band model has predictive capacity for pure monatomic metals and has been used to understand the relative chemical activity of transition and noble metals. However, in alloys, additional factors such as the transfer of electronic charge from one element to another can affect the position of the d-band center. The transfer of charge from one alloy element to another complicates the physical picture and makes it difficult to devise a universal model that can capture the general behavior of alloys. The results for Ni alloys have been shown in previous contributions. To understand the origin of the 3d-metal-induced shifts in the position of the local d-band center and the chemical reactivity of Pt sites, various mechanisms that can affect the position of the d-band center localized on an atom in metal alloys were discussed. A critical consequence is that since the local d-charge on alloy atoms is preserved upon the formation of alloys, the local d-band center and the chemical reactivity of the atoms in different alloys are mainly functions of the local d-band width. Another important consequence is that for a fixed site geometry, the width of the d-band localized on the site, and therefore the d-band center and the local chemical reactivity, is a unique function of only the spatial extents of the orbitals of the atoms that form the site. The studies show that when two transition metals are brought together to form an alloy, the change in the position of the local d-band center and the local chemical reactivity are governed by the width of the localized d-band, which is a unique function of the alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals of the metal atoms that form the alloy. Since the bond distance between constituent elements in alloys can be predicted, and the spatial extent of orbitals in alloys is known, the position of the center of the d-band for various sites in alloys and the chemical reactivity of these sites can be predicted easily. The definition of charge transfer used in the analysis is universal since it is independent of the cut-off radius over which the charge is integrated. Small changes in the filling of s/p bands affect the adsorption energy much less significantly than the changes in the center of the d-band.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.预测纯金属的化学反应性相对简单，但对合金做同样的预测更具挑战性。已经提出了一种模型，该模型使用实验分析和量子化学DFT计算来预测合金化对合金中不同位点的局部电子结构和化学反应性的影响。该模型的核心特征是，合金中d轨道的杂化不会导致合金组分元素之间发生显著的电荷转移，而局部d态密度投影到位点上的宽度是描述该位点化学反应性的一个极佳指标。d带模型对纯单原子金属具有预测能力，并已被用于理解过渡金属和贵金属的相对化学活性。然而，在合金中，额外的因素，如一个元素向另一个元素的电子电荷转移，可能除了d轨道之间的重叠之外，还会影响d带中心的位置。一个合金元素向另一个合金元素的电荷转移进一步复杂化了物理图景，并且很难设计出一个普遍的模型来捕捉合金的一般行为。Ni合金的结果已在以前的贡献中显示。为了理解3d金属诱导的局部d带中心位置变化以及Pt位点化学反应性的起源，讨论了可以影响金属合金中定位在原子上的d带中心位置的各种机制。一个关键的后果是，由于合金原子上的局部d电荷在合金形成时得以保存，因此不同合金中原子的局部d带中心和化学反应性主要取决于局部d带的宽度。另一个重要的后果是，对于固定位点几何形状，定位在位点上的d带的宽度，以及因此的d带中心和局部化学反应性，仅是形成该位点的原子轨道的空间范围的唯一函数。从这些研究中得出的图景是，当两种过渡金属被带到一起形成合金时，局部d带中心位置（因此是局部化学反应性）的变化在很大程度上仅由局部d带的宽度决定，该宽度是合金几何形状（合金原子之间的键长）和形成合金的金属原子的d轨道的空间范围的唯一函数。由于合金中组成元素之间的键长可以被预测，而合金中轨道的空间范围是已知的，因此可以轻松预测合金中各种位点的d带中心位置以及这些位点的化学反应性。在分析中使用的电荷转移定义是普遍的，因为它独立于积分电荷的截止半径。s/p带填充的小变化对吸附能的影响远小于上述d带中心变化的影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
