<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Bimetallic catalysts have evolved significantly in heterogeneous catalysis since their commercial introduction. Their unique electronic and chemical properties contribute to bridging the "materials gap" and "pressure gap" between model surfaces and industrially relevant supported catalysts in both fundamental research and practical applications. Bimetallic nanoparticles (NPs) have been emerging as a type of important catalyst. Bimetallic NPs with alloyed and coreshell structures have higher activities than monometallic counterparts in catalysis due to the synergistic effects between the two metals. Heterometallic NPs composed of two or more metal elements with various nanostructures (alloy/intermetallics, coreshell, heterostructure, etc.) via different synthesis approaches have presented improved physical and chemical properties compared to their monometallic NPs in many fields, especially in catalysis. The chemical and physical properties of alloy NPs can be well tuned by varying the size, composition and atomic ordering. Alloy materials have distinct binding properties with reactants in contrast to those for monometallic metal catalysts. The strong metal-metal interactions tune the bonding between the catalyst surfaces and the reactants, where the extra stabilization of the transition state on the alloy catalysts in comparison to the corresponding interaction on the monometallic catalyst surface is an additional benefit. Coreshell NPs are in the frontier of advanced materials chemistry among the various bimetallic NPs and are of great importance and interest owing to their physical and chemical properties that are strongly dependent on the structure of the core, shell, and interface, and also quite different from those of monometallic counterparts and alloys.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.自商业引入以来，双金属催化剂在异相催化领域经历了显著的演变。它们独特的电子和化学性质有助于弥合模型表面与工业相关支撑催化剂之间的“材料差距”和“压力差距”，在基础研究和实际应用中均如此。双金属纳米粒子（NPs）已成为一种重要的催化剂。具有合金和核心壳结构的双金属NPs在催化作用中的活性高于单金属同类产品，这是由于两种金属之间的协同效应。由两种或更多金属元素组成的异金属NPs，通过不同的合成方法具有各种纳米结构（合金/金属间化合物，核心壳，异质结构等），与单金属NPs相比，在许多领域，特别是在催化作用中，表现出改善的物理和化学性质。合金NPs的化学和物理性质可以通过改变尺寸，组成和原子排列很好地调节。与单金属金属催化剂相比，合金材料与反应物具有不同的结合性质。强烈的金属-金属相互作用调节了催化剂表面与反应物之间的结合，与单金属催化剂表面上的相应相互作用相比，合金催化剂上的过渡态得到了额外的稳定。核心壳NPs在各种双金属NPs中处于先进材料化学的前沿，由于其核心，壳层和界面的结构强烈依赖的物理和化学性质，因此非常重要和有趣，这些性质与单金属同类产品和合金大不相同。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
