<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "Rare-earthplatinum alloy nanoparticles in mesoporous zeolite for catalysis Platinum is a much used catalyst that, in petrochemical processes, is often alloyed with other metals to improve catalytic activity, selectivity and longevity1,2,3,4,5."
          [2] "Such catalysts are usually prepared in the form of metallic nanoparticles supported on porous solids, and their production involves reducing metal precursor compounds under a H2 flow at high temperatures6."
          [3] "The method works well when using easily reducible late transition metals, but Pt alloy formation with rare-earth elements through the H2 reduction route is almost impossible owing to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides6."
          [4] "Here we use as support a mesoporous zeolite that has pore walls with surface framework defects (called silanol nests) and show that the zeolite enables alloy formation between Pt and rare-earth elements."
          [5] "We find that the silanol nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a substantially higher chemical potential compared with that of the bulk oxide, making it possible for them to diffuse onto Pt."
          [6] "High-resolution transmission electron microscopy and hydrogen chemisorption measurements indicate that the resultant bimetallic nanoparticles supported on the mesoporous zeolite are intermetallic compounds, which we find to be stable, highly active and selective catalysts for the propane dehydrogenation reaction."
          [7] "When used with late transition metals, the same preparation strategy produces Pt alloy catalysts that incorporate an unusually large amount of the second metal and, in the case of the PtCo alloy, show high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in H2."
          [8] "The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades, since its discovery in the early 1990s3,7."
          [9] "The Pt metal alone exhibits high initial catalytic activity, but rapidly deactivates as a result of coke deposition on the Pt surface."
          [10] "The coke deposition also causes an undesirable loss of the catalytic selectivity to propylene."
          [11] "To alleviate these problems, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles and thereby dilute the Pt surface with inactive Sn atoms and break up coke-generating Pt ensembles."
          [12] "Our search for a highly active and more durable PDH catalyst has focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for the alumina support."
          [13] "This zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent, has attracted attention as an advanced catalyst support8,9,10,11,12,13 owing to its unique structure, which comprises ultrathin zeolite frameworks and three-dimensionally interconnected mesopores that boost the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing both facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores12,13."
          [14] "The formation of the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite brought a striking enhancement in all aspects of the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity and durability, as shown in Fig. 2."
          [15] "The catalytic reaction was performed at 580C using a pure propane flow at a large space velocity (see Methods), and these harsh operating conditions caused even the conventional PtSn/alumina catalyst to experience severe coke formation and catalyst deactivation within 1 d."
          [16] "In sharp contrast, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite (denoted as PtLa/mz-deGa, where mz stands for mesoporous zeolite) showed a high initial propane conversion of 40% (close to the equilibrium conversion) and underwent extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction."
          [17] "The PtREE incorporation in the mesoporous zeolite was conducted by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 and either La(NO3)3·6H2O or Y(NO3)3·6H2O, followed by heating under an O2 flow at 350C and subsequently under H2 at 700C (see Methods)."
          [18] "The formation of the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite brought a striking enhancement in all aspects of the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity and durability, as shown in Fig. 2."
          [19] "The PtREE/zeolite showed formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles throughout the zeolite support."
          [20] "The PtREE/zeolite sample shown in Fig. 1 was prepared using a degallated zeolite containing a large number of silanol nest sites."
          [21] "The PtREE/zeolite showed a high initial propane conversion of 40% (close to the equilibrium conversion) and underwent extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction."
          [22] "The PtREE/zeolite contained a small amount of Ga (Si/Ga = 598) even after the degallation, and that this may participate in the catalytic function17,18."
          [23] "The effect of the remaining Ga was examined from the differences in PDH performance of mz-deGa, La/mz-deGa and Pt/mz-deGa, as shown in Extended Data Fig. 7."
          [24] "The PtREE/zeolite as a support would allow the discovery of not only REE-based alloy catalysts, but also other transition metal-based alloy catalysts with various compositions and structures, opening up new opportunities for catalytic applications."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts are typically prepared by reducing metal precursor compounds under a hydrogen flow at high temperatures. However, the formation of Pt alloys with rare-earth elements through this method is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses a mesoporous zeolite with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential. This allows them to diffuse onto Pt, forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. When applied to late transition metals, this preparation strategy results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as in the case of the PtCo alloy, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades. However, Pt metal alone exhibits high initial catalytic activity but rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition on the Pt surface, which also causes a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. To address these problems, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface with inactive Sn atoms and breaking up coke-generating Pt ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for the alumina support. This zeolite, synthesized using a multi-ammonium surfactant as a structure-directing agent, has attracted attention as an advanced catalyst support due to its unique structure, which comprises ultrathin zeolite frameworks and three-dimensionally interconnected mesopores. These features boost the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite has significantly enhanced the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, the conventional PtSn/alumina catalyst experiences severe coke formation and catalyst deactivation within one day. In contrast, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. The PtREE incorporation in the mesoporous zeolite was conducted by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under an O2 flow and subsequently under H2 at high temperatures. The formation of intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances the catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization by providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          最近在直接脱氢过程中支持金属催化剂的催化稳定性方面的进展包括使用在介孔沸石上支持的稀土铂合金纳米颗粒。这些催化剂通常通过在高温下在氢气流下还原金属前体化合物来制备。然而，通过这种方法形成Pt与稀土元素的合金是具有挑战性的，因为稀土元素氧化物的化学势较低。一种新颖的方法使用具有表面框架缺陷（称为硅醇巢）的介孔沸石，使稀土元素能够以单原子物种的形式存在，具有较高的化学势。这使它们能够扩散到Pt上，形成稳定的、高活性和选择性的间金属化合物，用于丙烷脱氢。当应用于晚期过渡金属时，这种制备策略导致Pt合金催化剂含有大量第二种金属，例如在PtCo合金的情况下，其在氢气中对一氧化碳的优先氧化显示出高催化活性和选择性。工业PDH过程近三十年来一直使用负载在多孔氧化铝上的PtSn双金属催化剂。然而，单独的Pt金属虽然具有高初始催化活性，但会因Pt表面的焦炭沉积而迅速失活，这也会导致催化选择性向丙烯的损失。为了解决这些问题，引入Sn与Pt纳米颗粒形成合金，用非活性Sn原子稀释Pt表面，破坏产生焦炭的Pt集合体。研究人员将注意力集中在使用具有分级微/介孔结构的硅质MFI沸石作为氧化铝载体的替代品上。这种沸石使用多铵表面活性剂作为结构导向剂合成，因其独特的结构而受到关注，该结构由超薄沸石框架和三维互连介孔组成。这些特征通过提供反应物和产物的易扩散以及介孔内金属纳米颗粒的高分散性，提高了负载金属的催化性能。Pt3La和Pt3Y纳米颗粒在脱镓沸石上的形成显著提高了PDH催化性能，包括活性、选择性和耐久性。在苛刻的操作条件下，传统的PtSn/氧化铝催化剂在一天内就会经历严重的焦炭形成和催化剂失活。相比之下，负载在脱镓沸石上的Pt3La间金属纳米颗粒显示出高初始丙烷转化率，并且经历极其缓慢的失活，即使在30天的反应后仍保持8%的转化率。PtREE在介孔沸石中的掺入是通过共浸渍Pt和稀土元素前体的水溶液，然后在O2流下加热，随后在高温下在H2下加热来实现的。在脱镓沸石上形成Pt3La和Pt3Y等金属间化合物，显著提高了催化性能，包括活性、选择性和耐久性。PtREE/沸石催化剂表现出高初始丙烷转化率和缓慢的失活，即使在长时间反应后仍能保持显著的转化率。沸石中存在少量的Ga也可能对催化功能产生影响。这些进步通过提供一种稳定且活性高的催化剂来解决催化剂设计、制造和性能优化的挑战，特别适用于工业应用中的丙烷脱氢。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
