Tungsten and tungsten–carbon thin films deposited by magnetron sputtering
Ph. Gouy‐Pailler;
Y. Pauleau
J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 11, 96–102 (1993)
https://doi.org/10.1116/1.578725
Article history
element not found
为了改善您的体验，在您同意我们所有网站和应用的情况下，我们（和我们的合作伙伴）在您连接的终端上存储和/或访问您终端上的信息（cookie或对应信息）。
我们的网站可能会将这些cookie用于：
不通过资料收集而判定我们网站上广告的受众
根据您的导航和个人资料展示个性化广告
根据您的导航个性化我们的编辑内容
允许您在我们网站上的社交网络或平台上分享内容
根据您的位置向您发送广告
隐私政策
设定偏好
全部接受
全部拒绝
All Content
AVS: Science & Technology of Materials Interfaces and Processing
Journal of Vacuum Science & Technology A
                             Advanced Search
|
Citation Search
Institutional Accounts
Sign In
HOME
BROWSE
COLLECTIONS
PUBLISH WITH US
ABOUT
Volume 11, Issue 1
January 1993
Previous Article
Next Article
RESEARCH ARTICLE| JANUARY 01 1993
Tungsten and tungsten–carbon thin films deposited by magnetron sputtering
Ph. Gouy‐Pailler;
Y. Pauleau
J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 11, 96–102 (1993)
https://doi.org/10.1116/1.578725
Article history
Share
Tools
Tungsten and tungsten–carbon thin films have been produced from a W target sputtered in argon and argon–methane mixtures, respectively. The deposition rate of W films was measured as a function of the sputtering power and argon pressure varying in the range of 0.3–3 Pa. The crystallographic structure and composition of W films deposited on silicon and carbon substrates were investigated by x‐ray diffraction and Rutherford backscattering spectroscopy. The electrical resistivity of the W films was minimum (12 μΩ cm) when the internal stresses in the films were negligible. The carbon concentration in the W–C films determined by nuclear reaction analyses and Rutherford backscattering spectroscopy was varied from 10 to 95 at. % with increasing CH4 content in the gas phase. The crystallographic structure of the W–C films was found to be dependent on the carbon concentration. Below 25 at. % of carbon, the structure of the W–C films was that of the cubic α‐W phase with a dilated lattice parameter. For higher carbon concentrations, the bcc α‐W phase disappeared and the structure was that of the nonstoichiometric cubic β‐WC1−x phase. The structure of W–C films with a carbon content greater than 65 at. % was nearly amorphous. Internal stresses and electrical resistivity of W–C films were determined as functions of the carbon concentration. The experimental parameters suitable to produce W and W–C films with low resistivities and reduced internal stress level are reported in this article.
Topics
Crystal structure, Electrical resistivity, Magnetron sputtering, Thin films, X-ray diffraction, Transition metals, Chemical elements, Organic compounds, Gas phase
This content is only available via PDF.
© 1993 American Vacuum Society.
You do not currently have access to this content.
Sign in
Don't already have an account? Register
Sign In
Username
Password
SIGN IN
Reset password
Register
Sign in via your Institution
Pay-Per-View Access $40.00
BUY THIS ARTICLE
View Metrics
Citing Articles Via
Web Of Science (68)
Google Scholar
Crossref (69)
Submit your article
  Sign up for alerts
Most Read
Most Cited
Low-resistivity molybdenum obtained by atomic layer deposition
Kees van der Zouw, Bernhard Y. van der Wel, et al.
Many routes to ferroelectric HfO2: A review of current deposition methods
Hanan Alexandra Hsain, Younghwan Lee, et al.
Introduction to reproducible laboratory hard x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
Kateryna Artyushkova, Stuart R. Leadley, et al.
Online ISSN 1520-8559 Print ISSN 0734-2101
Resources
For Researchers
For Librarians
For Advertisers
Our Publishing Partners 
Explore
Journals
Physics Today
Conference Proceedings
Books
Special Topics
Publishers
pubs.aip.org
About
User Guide
Contact Us
Register
Help
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Connect with AIP Publishing
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
YouTube
© Copyright 2024 AIP Publishing LLC