<quotes>
Due to the free coking and no equilibrium limitation in alkanes conversion, the oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes to olefins offers an attractive route, but encounters the difficulty in selectivity control for olefins because of the over-oxidation reactions that produce a substantial amount of CO2.
The antioxidant and chemically inert hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) is extremely active for ODH process of ethane and propane opens up a new research direction in selective cleavage of CH bond of alkanes by the metal-free catalyst.
The catalyst h-BN can convert propane to propylene with a selectivity reaching 80%, more than 90% for both propylene and ethylene, with negligible CO2 formation (0.5%) at a given propane conversion of 20.6%.
People in different groups identified with the idea that the boron species could be truly indispensable element for high ODH activity.
Silicon boride (SiB3-6), a metal-free material enriching in boron sites, exhibits good oxidation resistance property at high temperature and could be as a potential catalyst for ODH of light alkanes.
Before using, the silicon boride was activated by feed gas (C3H8/O2/N2) at 535C for 3h.
The activity of silicon boride catalyst in ODH of light alkanes including ethane, propane and isobutane was showed in Fig. 1.
In the B 1s XPS spectrum of the fresh catalyst, the percentages of BSi bond (187.0eV) and BO bond (189.8eV) were 49.4% and 46.6%, while the suboxide (BxOy, y/x<1.5, 192.6eV) species [29] contributed the rest 4.0%.
Upon exposure to the ODH of propane reaction (535C), the surface oxygen concentrations increased to 50.4% after 1h (SiB-1h) and 54.8% after 3h (SiB-3h).
In contrast, the percentages of BO species (BxOy and B2O3) in B 1s XPS spectrum increased to 46.8% after 1h and 79.7% after 3h.
The results in Fig. 3 showed that the BO groups took part in the reaction network.
As shown in Eq.
(1) , a near second-order dependence of propane concentration suggested that the activation of propane determined the total reaction rate.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Metal-free silicon boride catalyst shows good oxidation resistance property at high temperature, enabling efficient oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes to olefins with high selectivity and stability. The boron species is identified as the key element for high activity in these reactions.

2. The unique properties of 1-D edge active sites in B-based catalysts play crucial roles in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane reactions. Understanding these properties and reaction mechanisms helps in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. 

3. The antioxidant ability of silicon boride ensures the catalytic stability, allowing for a high selectivity in the dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The boron species, especially in the form of BOH groups, appears to be the catalytic activity sites on the surfaces of the catalyst.

4. The kinetic analysis reveals that the reaction order of oxygen is approximately 0.5, suggesting that molecular oxygen dissociates on the surface of the catalyst during the reaction process. The near second-order dependence of propane concentration indicates that its activation determines the total reaction rate.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 金属自由的硅硼化物催化剂在高温下表现出良好的氧化稳定性，能够高效地将轻烷烃转化为烯烃，并保持高选择性和稳定性。硼物种被确定为这些反应中高活性的关键元素。

2. B基催化剂中的1-D边活性位点的独特性质和反应机制对丙烷反应具有关键作用。理解这些性质和反应机制有助于设计更高效的商用催化剂。

3. 硅硼化物的抗氧化能力确保了催化稳定性，使得轻烷烃的脱氢过程具有高选择性。硼物种，尤其是BOH组分，似乎是在催化剂表面的活性位点。

4. 动力学分析表明氧的反应级数约为0.5，表明分子氧在催化剂表面的解离发生在反应过程中。近似第二级依赖于丙烷浓度表明其活化决定了总反应速率。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
