<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          "[1] "The aim of this study was to compute intermediates and transition states involved in the catalytic cycle for the dehy- drogenation of ethane to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite." [2] "The results of calculations provided two distinct routes of ethane activation on the zeolite-coordinated Zn cations. The rst route starts with the alkyl activation of a CH bond (RdHd), whereas the second route starts with carbenium activation (RdHd)." [3] "The rst step of ethane10h13 and propane14,15 aroma- tisation in a Zn-doped zeolite catalyst is the dehydrogenation of these alkanes to the corresponding alkenes. The alkenes then undergo dehydrocyclooligomerisation." [4] "The results obtained indicate that the reaction proceeds via a mechanism starting from the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond and the zinc cation acts as an acceptor of the alkyl group." [5] "The computed activation energies for these three steps Brnsted are 18.4, 53.4 and 20.5 kcal mol1, respectively." [6] "The alternative mechanism starting from the carbenium activation with the zinc cation abstracting the hydride ion, is unfavourable because of the high (C2H5dHd),activation barrier for the rst step (67.6 kcal mol1)."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          "The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, such as zinc-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. The study focused on the dehydrogenation of ethane to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite, revealing two distinct routes of ethane activation. The first route involves the alkyl activation of a CH bond, while the second route involves carbenium activation. The dehydrogenation of alkanes to alkenes is the first step in the aromatization process in a Zn-doped zeolite catalyst, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The mechanism of the reaction starts with the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with the zinc cation acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group. The computed activation energies for the three steps involved in the alkyl route are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol1, respectively. The alternative mechanism starting from the carbenium activation is unfavorable due to the high activation barrier for the first step. The literature does not provide information on how the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance. The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. For instance, in Zn-exchanged zeolites, the location of metal cations in the zeolite channels and their substitution for protons play a crucial role in the catalytic activity towards alkane aromatization. The catalytic cycle for alkyl activation consists of three elementary steps: rupture of the ethane CH bond on the Zn-O pair, formation of ethene from the alkyl group bound to Zn, and formation of dihydrogen from the proton and hydrogen bound to Zn. The computed activation energies for these steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol-1, respectively. The alternative mechanism starting from the carbenium activation is less favorable due to the high activation barrier for the first step (67.6 kcal mol-1). The industrial significance of these catalysts is due to their ability to increase the selectivity of zeolite catalysts towards aromatization of small alkanes, which is essential for the commercial Cyclar process and other aromatization processes for light hydrocarbons. The study aimed to compute intermediates and transition states involved in the catalytic cycle for the dehydrogenation of ethane to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite. Two distinct routes of ethane activation on the zeolite-coordinated Zn cations were found. The first route starts with the alkyl activation of a CH bond, while the second route starts with carbenium activation. The first step of ethane and propane aromatization in a Zn-doped zeolite catalyst is the dehydrogenation of these alkanes to the corresponding alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The reaction proceeds via a mechanism starting from the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with the zinc cation acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group. The computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol1, respectively. The alternative mechanism starting from the carbenium activation with the zinc cation abstracting the hydride ion is unfavorable due to the high activation barrier for the first step."
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          "金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，如锌交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响。研究集中于锌交换沸石中乙烷脱氢至乙烯的过程，揭示了乙烷活化的两种不同途径。第一条途径涉及CH键的烷基活化，而第二条途径涉及卡宾活化。在Zn掺杂沸石催化剂中，烷烃脱氢为烯烃是芳构化过程的第一步，随后是脱氢环寡聚化。反应机制从乙烷CH键的烷基断裂开始，锌阳离子作为烷基基团的接受者。计算得出的三个步骤的活化能分别为18.4、53.4和20.5 kcal mol1。从卡宾活化开始的替代机制由于第一步的高活化能而不利。文献没有提供关于金属基催化剂（包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石）的组成、结构和反应条件如何影响烷烃转化的机理和效率，特别是在氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应等过程中的信息，以及哪些因素对它们的工业意义有贡献。金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响。例如，在Zn交换沸石中，金属阳离子在沸石通道中的位置和它们对质子的替代在催化活性向烷烃芳构化方面起着关键作用。烷基活化的催化循环包括三个基本步骤：在Zn-O对上断裂乙烷CH键，从与Zn结合的烷基基团形成乙烯，以及从与Zn结合的质子和氢形成二氢。这些步骤的计算活化能分别为18.4、53.4和20.5 kcal mol-1。从卡宾激活开始的替代机制由于第一步的高活化能（67.6 kcal mol-1）而不那么有利。这些催化剂的工业重要性在于它们能够提高沸石催化剂对小烷烃的芳构化选择性，这对商业Cyclar过程和其他轻烃的芳构化过程至关重要。这项研究旨在计算与催化循环相关的中间体和过渡态，该催化循环涉及在锌交换沸石中将乙烷脱氢为乙烯的过程。发现了两种不同的乙烷在沸石配位的Zn阳离子上的活化途径。第一条途径从CH键的烷基活化开始，而第二条途径从卡宾活化开始。在Zn掺杂沸石催化剂中，乙烷和丙烷芳构化的第一步是将这些烷烃脱氢为相应的烯烃，随后进行脱氢环寡聚化。反应通过从乙烷CH键的烷基断裂开始的机制进行，锌阳离子作为烷基的接受者。计算出的三个步骤的活化能分别为18.4、53.4和20.5 kcal mol1。从卡宾活化开始，锌阳离子抽取氢离子的替代机制，由于第一步的高活化能而不利。"
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
