<quotes>

[1] "The aim of this study was to compute intermediates and transition states involved in the catalytic cycle for the dehy- drogenation of ethane to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite."
[2] "The results of calculations provided two distinct routes of ethane activation on the zeolite-coordinated Zn cations. The rst route starts with the alkyl activation of a CH bond (RdHd), whereas the second route starts with carbenium activation (RdHd)."
[3] "The rst step of ethane10h13 and propane14,15 aroma- tisation in a Zn-doped zeolite catalyst is the dehydrogenation of these alkanes to the corresponding alkenes. The alkenes then undergo dehydrocyclooligomerisation."
[4] "The results obtained indicate that the reaction proceeds via a mechanism starting from the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond and the zinc cation acts as an acceptor of the alkyl group."
[5] "The computed activation energies for these three steps Brnsted are 18.4, 53.4 and 20.5 kcal mol1, respectively."
[6] "The alternative mechanism starting from the carbenium activation with the zinc cation abstracting the hydride ion, is unfavourable because of the high (C2H5dHd),activation barrier for the rst step (67.6 kcal mol1)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The study aimed to compute intermediates and transition states involved in the catalytic cycle for the dehydrogenation of ethane to ethene in a zinc-exchanged zeolite. Two distinct routes of ethane activation on the zeolite-coordinated Zn cations were found. The first route starts with the alkyl activation of a CH bond, while the second route starts with carbenium activation. The first step of ethane and propane aromatization in a Zn-doped zeolite catalyst is the dehydrogenation of these alkanes to the corresponding alkenes, followed by dehydrocyclooligomerization. The reaction proceeds via a mechanism starting from the alkyl rupture of the ethane CH bond, with the zinc cation acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group. The computed activation energies for the three steps are 18.4, 53.4, and 20.5 kcal mol1, respectively. The alternative mechanism starting from the carbenium activation with the zinc cation abstracting the hydride ion is unfavorable due to the high activation barrier for the first step.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.这项研究旨在计算与催化循环相关的中间体和过渡态，该催化循环涉及在锌交换沸石中将乙烷脱氢为乙烯的过程。发现了两种不同的乙烷在沸石配位的Zn阳离子上的活化途径。第一条途径从CH键的烷基活化开始，而第二条途径从卡宾活化开始。在Zn掺杂沸石催化剂中，乙烷和丙烷芳构化的第一步是将这些烷烃脱氢为相应的烯烃，随后进行脱氢环寡聚化。反应通过从乙烷CH键的烷基断裂开始的机制进行，锌阳离子作为烷基的接受者。计算出的三个步骤的活化能分别为18.4、53.4和20.5 kcal mol1。从卡宾活化开始，锌阳离子抽取氢离子的替代机制，由于第一步的高活化能而不利。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
