<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1">
      <Quotes>
          [1] "In recent years, zeolite-supported metal catalysts have exhibited excellent activity and superhigh stability in PDH reactions, which even exceed that of industrial catalysts, suggesting their great application prospects."
          [2] "However, during the PDH reaction at high temperatures (500600 C), Al2O3-supported metal catalysts are usually subjected to severe metal sintering, resulting in a fast and irreversible loss in their activity, requiring frequent regeneration."
          [3] "Zeolites are a class of crystalline nanoporous materials with large specific surface areas, well-defined and varisized microporous channels, and adjustable acidity and basicity, which have been widely applied in various industrial processes, exhibiting extraordinary catalytic activities and product selectivities."
          [4] "Considering that there is a rising tide in the design and development of zeolite-supported metal catalysts for PDH processes, we aim to present a comprehensive summary of the advances in zeolite-supported metal catalysts, including zeolite-supported monometal catalysts, zeolite-supported bimetal catalysts, and zeolite-supported single-site catalysts, for PDH reactions, especially in the last five years."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production include:

          1. Feedstock Availability: PDH technology utilizes propane as the primary feedstock, which is derived from shale gas, making it readily available and relatively inexpensive. This contrasts with conventional methods that rely on fossil fuels like naphtha and light diesel, which are subject to price fluctuations and supply chain complexities.

          2. Process Efficiency: PDH is an on-purpose process designed specifically to produce propylene, eliminating the need for the multiple steps and waste streams associated with traditional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking. This enhances overall process efficiency and reduces the environmental footprint.

          3. Product Selectivity: PDH produces pure propylene without the byproducts generated by other methods, offering a cleaner and more focused output. This aligns with the growing market demands for high-purity propylene, which is essential in the manufacturing of polymers, oxygenates, and other chemical products.

          4. Cost-Effectiveness and Profitability: With the advent of fracking technology, the feedstock for PDH becomes extremely cheap. Additionally, PDH factories are adaptable and can be utilized for various reactions beyond propylene production. The difference in price between propylene and propane, combined with the growing market for propylene, makes PDH highly profitable.

          5. Environmental Impact: By reducing reliance on fossil fuels and minimizing waste, PDH offers a more sustainable approach to propylene production, addressing the environmental concerns associated with traditional methods.

          6. Industrial Competition: Established companies like Chevron and UOP have already developed proprietary technologies for PDH, such as Catofin and Oleflex, respectively, which have been patented since 1968 and 1970. These technologies have proven their effectiveness and reliability in the industry.

          7. Regulatory and Economic Factors: The increasing demand for propylene, combined with stringent regulations on emissions and energy usage, pushes industries towards more efficient and environmentally friendly production methods like PDH.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          丙烷直接脱氢（PDH）技术在丙烯生产中的优势包括：

          1. 原料获取性：PDH技术以来源于页岩气的丙烷作为主要原料，原料丰富且成本相对低廉。这与依赖于石脑油和轻柴油等传统方法相比，避免了价格波动和供应链复杂性的问题。

          2. 过程效率：PDH是一种专为生产丙烯设计的直通工艺，能够去除传统方法中涉及的多步骤和副产品的产生，从而提高整体过程效率并减少环境影响。

          3. 产品选择性：PDH仅生成纯度较高的丙烯，而不会产生其他传统方法产生的副产品。这符合市场对高纯度丙烯的需求，丙烯是聚合物、氧基化合物和其他化学品制造的关键原料。

          4. 经济效益和盈利性：随着页岩气开采技术的发展，丙烷作为PDH原料的成本极为低廉。此外，PDH工厂具有高度灵活性，可以用于多种反应，而不局限于丙烯生产。丙烷与丙烯的价格差异以及丙烯市场的快速增长，使得PDH成为极具利润潜力的生产方式。

          5. 环境影响：通过减少对化石燃料的依赖和减少废弃物的产生，PDH提供了一种更加可持续的丙烯生产方法，解决了传统方法可能带来的环境问题。

          6. 行业竞争：已有多家大型公司如雪佛龙和UOP开发了如Catofin和Oleflex等专有PDH技术，这些技术自1968年和1970年起就已经获得专利，并证明了其在工业领域的有效性和可靠性。

          7. 监管和经济因素：不断增长的丙烯需求，加上对排放和能源使用的严格监管，推动了产业界转向更高效和环境友好的生产方法，如PDH。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
   <Question number="2">
      <Quotes>
          [1] "Advances in zeolite-supported metal catalysts for propane dehydrogenation Propylene is one of the building blocks in modern industry and the feedstock for polypropylene, acrylonitrile, and other important chemicals. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is one of the most promising on-purpose technologies to produce propylene, and thus has attracted widespread attention from both the academic and industrial communities. In recent years, zeolite-supported metal catalysts have exhibited excellent activity and superhigh stability in PDH reactions, which even exceed that of industrial catalysts, suggesting their great application prospects."
          [2] "Given these circumstances, a highly efficient way to produce propylene is urgently need, both scientifically and economically."
          [3] "In addition, with the advent of fracking technology to produce shale gas, which contains a large amount of propane, the feedstocks for PDH have become extremely cheap."
          [4] "Moreover, PDH factories are highly adjustable and can be adapted to run many other different reactions."
          [5] "The differences between the price of propylene and propane and the growing propylene market make PDH extraordinarily profitable."
          [6] "To date, platinum (Pt)- and chromic oxide (CrOx)-based catalysts are the most popular catalysts for these industrial processes, which generally use Al2O3 as a support to immobilize the metal species."
          [7] "Zeolites are a class of crystalline nanoporous materials with large specific surface areas, well-defined and varisized microporous channels, and adjustable acidity and basicity, which have been widely applied in various industrial processes, exhibiting extraordinary catalytic activities and product selectivities."
          [8] "In recent years, zeolites have also been regarded as ideal supports to anchor different types of metal species with high dispersity, achieving excellent performance in various heterogeneous catalysis."
          [9] "Considering that there is a rising tide in the design and development of zeolite-supported metal catalysts for PDH processes, we aim to present a comprehensive summary of the advances in zeolite-supported metal catalysts, including zeolite-supported monometal catalysts, zeolite-supported bimetal catalysts, and zeolite-supported single-site catalysts, for PDH reactions, especially in the last five years."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          1. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising method for propylene production due to its on-purpose nature, producing only propylene without creating hybrid hydrocarbon products. This contrasts with conventional methods that might produce a mix of products, complicating separation and purification processes.

          2. Given these circumstances, a highly efficient way to produce propylene is urgently needed, both scientifically and economically. 

          3. With the advent of fracking technology to produce shale gas, which contains a large amount of propane, the feedstocks for PDH have become extremely cheap.

          4. PDH factories are highly adjustable and can be adapted to run many other different reactions.

          5. The differences between the price of propylene and propane and the growing propylene market make PDH a highly profitable process.

          6. Platinum (Pt)- and chromic oxide (CrOx)-based catalysts are the most popular catalysts used in industrial processes, typically supported by Al2O3 to immobilize metal species.

          7. Zeolites are a class of crystalline materials with large surface area, well-defined microporous channels, and tunable acidity/basicity, making them suitable for various industrial processes with exceptional catalytic activities and product selectivity.

          8. In recent years, zeolites have been recognized as ideal supports for anchoring different types of metal species with high dispersion, achieving outstanding performance in heterogeneous catalysis.

          9. Considering the recent advancements in the development of zeolite-supported metal catalysts for PDH processes, a comprehensive overview of the progress in zeolite-supported metal catalysts, including monometal, bimetal, and single-site catalysts, is presented, focusing on developments over the past five years.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          1. 烷烃直接脱氢（PDH）技术因其仅生产丙烯而没有混合碳氢化合物产品的特性，被认为是生产丙烯最具有前景的方法。与传统方法可能产生混合物并需要复杂分离和精炼过程相比，PDH具有明显优势。

          2. 在这种情况下，迫切需要一种高效的方法来生产丙烯，既在科学上又在经济上。

          3. 随着页岩气的开采技术，其中含有大量丙烷，PDH的原料变得极为便宜。

          4. PDH工厂高度可调节，并能适应运行许多不同类型的反应。

          5. 丙烯和丙烷价格之间的差异以及对丙烯市场增长的影响使PDH成为一个极其有利可图的过程。

          6. 在工业过程中，铂（Pt）-和铬氧化物（CrOx）-基催化剂是最受欢迎的催化剂，通常以氧化铝（Al2O3）作为载体固定金属物种。

          7. 沸石是一类具有大表面积、定义明确的微孔通道和可调酸碱性的晶体材料，适用于各种工业过程，具有出色的催化活性和产物选择性。

          8. 近年来，沸石被识别为锚定不同类型的金属物种以高分散性，实现异质催化中优异性能的理想支持。

          9. 考虑到近年来在PDH过程中开发沸石支持金属催化剂的进展，提供了一个全面概述的沸石支持金属催化剂的进步，包括单金属、双金属和单站点催化剂，专注于过去五年的进展。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
