<quotes>

[1] "One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties."
[2] "the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates."
[3] "Several other investigations of Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces."
[4] "the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures."
[5] "Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals."
[6] "the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface."
[7] "An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration."
[8] "In contrast, an adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations."
[9] "When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum."
[10] "the presence of atomic oxygen makes the 3dPtPt(111) surface structure more thermodynamically stable than Pt3dPt(111)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions is a critical factor in bimetallic catalysis, as it can modify the catalytic properties. For example, the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications often have a Pt skin, indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces. The thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation is related to the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures. However, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals. The subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen, but it is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, provide only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration. In contrast, adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produce a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum. The presence of atomic oxygen makes the 3dPtPt(111) surface structure more thermodynamically stable than Pt3dPt(111).

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在双金属催化作用中，反应条件下双金属表面结构的稳定性是一个关键问题，因为它可以改变催化性能。例如，在真空条件下，子表面PtNiPt(111)结构比表面NiPtPt(111)结构更热力学稳定。在燃料电池应用中，Pt3d合金通常有一层Pt皮肤，这表明Pt终止的双金属表面具有热力学偏好。氢诱导分层的热力学驱动力与Eseg值和表面与子表面结构上的氢结合能之间的差异有关。然而，由于氢与大多数过渡金属的结合相对较弱，只有少数双金属表面会经历子表面吸附金属的氢诱导分层。在吸附氢的情况下，子表面配置仍然热力学上优选，但在0.5 ML原子氧的存在下，子表面结构不再稳定，表明子表面3d金属向表面分层的热力学驱动力。具有弱泡利电负性的吸附物，如H、S、Se或C，与表面和子表面配置的结合较弱，仅提供配置互换的热力学势的小变化。相比之下，具有强泡利电负性的吸附物，如N或O，在两种配置之间产生大的结合能差异。当N或O的表面覆盖率足够高时，这种差异超过了在真空下保留子表面配置的热力学势。原子氧的存在使3dPtPt(111)表面结构比Pt3dPt(111)更热力学稳定。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
