<quotes>
[1] "We believe that it is this synergy between the fields of modern surface science, computational chemistry, and materials synthesis that will usher the field of heterogeneous catalysis into a new modality where catalysts will be designed at a molecular level to selectively promote specific reactions in complex systems."
[2] "In the case of gold cited above, for instance, a clear correlation has been reported between the size of gold particles dispersed on a titania support and both the magnitude of the electronic band gap of the metal and its catalytic activity for CO oxidation."
[3] "A correlation was identified between the ease with which 2-propanol is oxidized (the extent to which the reaction onset temperature is lowered) and the increase in the number of coordinatively unsaturated sites on the Pt nanoparticles (an increase in the number of missing bonds)."
[4] "As predicted, it was found that cis-to-trans isomerization is favored on the tetrahedral particles, whereas other more rounded structures display a reversed selectivity toward the trans isomer."
[5] "An aluminum catalyst anchored to silica can display high activity toward the MVP reaction in an open configuration, with one single coordination bond to the calixarene. However, that activity can be almost completely suppressed if a close site is used instead, via coordination of the individual aluminum ion to two oxygen atoms within the calixarene ring."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The synergy between modern surface science, computational chemistry, and materials synthesis will lead to the design of catalysts that can selectively promote specific reactions at a molecular level in complex systems.

2. The size of gold particles dispersed on a titania support correlates with the electronic band gap of the metal and its catalytic activity for CO oxidation.

3. The ease of oxidizing 2-propanol is linked to the increase in coordinatively unsaturated sites on the Pt nanoparticles.

4. Tetrahedral particles favor cis-to-trans isomerization, while other particles display a reversed selectivity toward the trans isomer.

5. An aluminum catalyst anchored to silica shows high activity in an open configuration with a single coordination bond to the calixarene. Coordination of the aluminum ion to two oxygen atoms within the calixarene ring can suppress this activity.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 现代表面科学、计算化学和材料合成之间的协同作用将引导催化剂的设计，使其能够在复杂系统中以分子水平选择性地促进特定反应。

2. 散布在二氧化钛支持上的金颗粒的大小与金属的电子带隙以及其CO氧化活性之间存在相关性。

3. 氧化2-丙醇的容易程度与铂纳米粒子上的配位不饱和位点的数量增加有关。

4. 四面体颗粒有利于顺式到反式的异构化，而其他形状的颗粒则表现出对反式的相反选择性。

5. 锚定在硅胶上的铝催化剂在单个配合键与卡里斯特环接触时显示出高活性。铝离子与卡里斯特环内的两个氧原子配位可以完全抑制这种活性。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
