<quotes>
3.3. NMR relaxometry
In addition to NMR cryoporometry which is sensitive to pore space geometry, NMR relaxometry can provide valuable information on molecular dynamics of the confined liquid and on surface interactions. The adsorbate molecules probe the pore structure and surfaces via translational diffusion between the surface sites and the internal volume of the pore. In the vicinity of the solid surface, the transverse relaxation time T2 of a liquid tends to decrease in comparison to the bulk state. The decrease is the larger the stronger is the surface interaction and is usually more pronounced for polar liquids. In pores with characteristic sizes of a few or a few tens of nanometers the exchange between the surface sites and the pore interior is fast on the time scale of the NMR experiment. The measured transverse relaxation rate T1 2 of a liquid in the mesop- ores, therefore, will represent an average of the bulk-like liquid relaxation rate T1 2;bulk and the enhanced surface relaxation rate,weighted according to the surface-to-volume ratio of the pore.
Brownstein and Tarr calculated T1 2 of a liquid confined in a simple spherical pore with a volume V and a surface S 1
T2
1 T2;bulk q S
V
3 where S/V is the surface-to-volume ratio and q is the surface relax- ivity [18]. Eq. (3) contains quantities related both to geometrical characteristics (surface-to-volume ratio) and to surface interactions (surface relaxivity). The amplitude of the transverse magnetization in a system with equally sized pores and uniform surface interac- tions will be a simple exponential function of time Wt  It=I0  exp  t
T2
4 where I(t) is the intensity of the transverse magnetization at time t.
In our experiments, it was evaluated from a series of spin echoes produced by the CPMG pulse sequence [19]. If there is a distribution of the pore sizes, the relaxation function will result as the integral of the contributions of the individual pores [20] Wt
Z
fT1 2 exp  t
T2
dT1 2 5 where fT1 2  denotes the distribution function of the relaxivities.
The mean relaxation rate can be determined from the initial slope of the relaxation curve according to hT1 2 i   lim t!0 @ @t Wt
Z
T1
2 fT1 2 dT1 2 6 Typically, the transverse relaxation time of a bulk liquid (seconds) is much larger than that of a liquid near the pore wall (milliseconds or below). Therefore, the measured relaxation rate in Eq. (3) is deter- mined solely by the second term. Provided the distribution of relax- ivities fT1 2  is due to distribution of the pore sizes only, the latter can be deduced from the measured relaxation function, Eq. (5). This was demonstrated, for example, for a series of silica gels in Ref. [11].
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) relaxometry provides insights into the molecular dynamics within confined liquids and their interactions with the pore surfaces in nanoporous materials. The transverse relaxation time (T2) of a liquid decreases near the solid surface compared to its bulk state, with the degree of decrease proportional to the strength of surface interactions. For liquids in mesopores with sizes ranging from a few to tens of nanometers, the exchange between surface sites and the pore interior occurs rapidly on the NMR timescale. The measured transverse relaxation rate (T1 2) in mesopores represents an average of the bulk-like liquid relaxation rate (T1 2;bulk) and the enhanced surface relaxation rate, weighted by the surface-to-volume ratio of the pore. The amplitude of the transverse magnetization decays exponentially with time, following a function that can be calculated from the relaxation function (Wt) of the liquid. The mean relaxation rate can be determined from the initial slope of the relaxation curve. The relaxation rate measured in Eq. (3) is primarily influenced by the second term, which is determined by the surface relaxivity (q) and the surface-to-volume ratio (S/V). If the distribution of relaxation rates is due solely to variations in pore sizes, the pore size distribution can be deduced from the measured relaxation function.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
核磁共振（NMR）弛豫度测量提供了在纳米多孔材料中受限液体的动力学和其与孔表面之间相互作用的信息。靠近固体表面时，液体的横向弛豫时间（T2）比其本体状态更短，且减少程度与表面相互作用强度成正比。对于尺寸在几个到几十个纳米范围内的微孔，表面位点与孔内体积之间的交换在NMR时间尺度上迅速发生。在微孔中的测量横向弛豫率（T1 2）代表了本体类似液体弛豫率（T1 2;bulk）和增强的表面弛豫率的平均值，由孔的表面积与体积比（S/V）和表面弛豫率（q）加权。横向磁化幅度随时间呈指数衰减，遵循可以由松弛函数（Wt）计算的函数。可以从松弛曲线的初始斜率确定平均弛豫率。测量在等式（3）中的弛豫率主要受第二项影响，该项由表面弛豫率（q）和表面积与体积比（S/V）确定。如果弛豫率分布仅由孔大小的变化引起，则可以通过测量的松弛函数推断出孔径分布。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
