<quotes>

[1] "In the first step, metallic cations act as Lewis acid sites, and the basic sites are surface O= or OH- species. The substrate undergoes hydrogen abstraction, oxygen insertion, and electron transfer. Thus, the active sites require a spatial organization at atomic level and the cooperation of distinctive atoms.31"
[2] "The activation energy of this step depends on the identity of the cation and increases in the order VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation activation energies are higher than those for propene combustion, but the relative rates of these reactions most probably also depends on the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane. The latter parameter is mainly influenced by the Lewis acidity of the cations through π bonding with the CC double bond. This explains the observed difference in activation energy between propane oxidative dehydrogenation and propene combustion, that increases as the Lewis acidity of the cations increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+).64"
[3] "For instance, for the catalytic behavior of δ-alumina-supported vanadium oxide for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and n-butane, it has been observed that the activity for dehydrogenation increases as the vanadium loading, while the selectivity toward alkene formation reaches a maximum at 34 wt %. 66 Apparently, the highest propene yields require of a solid containing redox sites of adequate potential combined with strong Lewis acid sites and mild basic sites.66"
[4] "The catalytic activity of vanadium oxide can be promoted by Lewis acid assistance of the support as, for instance, in alkane oxidation. Thus, studies of the structure and reactivity of group V metal oxides have been carried out by means of methanol adsorption and oxidation. 69 It has been found that the active sites present in pure V2O5 are primarily redox sites and the active sites in pure Nb2O5 are essentially acidic in nature. Furthermore, the surface redox sites present in pure V2O5 are orders of magnitude more active than the surface acid sites in pure Nb2O5 and consequently the catalytic activity of V2O5/Nb2O5 mixed oxides is largely dominated by the vanadia component.69 However, niobia presence enhances significantly the activity of vanadia for those catalytic reactions that require a dual nature of redox and acid sites. This is the case of butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the selective oxidation of ammonia by NOx."
[5] "The relative low activity toward alkane oxydehydrogenation as compared to other vanadia-supported selective oxidation catalysts such as V2O5/TiO2 and (VO)2P2O7 has been attributed to the basic environment generated by the MgO support, which causes a parallel decrease of the Lewis acidity influencing the oxidizing power of the active V ions. 70"
[6] "The activity of Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox supported on δ-alumina, titania, silica, niobia, and zirconia for the direct conversion of propane to acrolein has been found to increase as the amount of Lewis acid sites surrounding the redox active VOx species present on the solid increases. 71"
[7] "Although vanadium ions present on vanadium oxide act generally as redox sites, when supported on zirconia and titania they act as well as Lewis acid sites strong enough to form π complexes with toluene and m-xylene as evidenced by IR spectroscopy. 72 The methyl group of these π complexes becomes activated and undergoes hydrogen abstraction by the VO group leading to benzylic species and benzaldehyde.72"
[8] "Lateral chain oxidation of alkylaromatics is an industrial process of paramount importance that can be also catalyzed by vanadium oxides. 73 Acidity also seems to play a role in this process, facilitating the oxidation. V2O7/TiO2 doped with K, Ba, Bi, W, and Sn oxides or carbonates exhibits catalytic activity in the oxidation of ortho-xylene to phthalic anhydride. At reaction temperatures higher than 370 C, good correlation between the strength of the acid sites and phthalic anhydride yield (K < Ba < Bi < unpromoted < W  Sn) was observed. 74"
[9] "The results have been correlated again with the operation of the Mars and van Krevelen mechanism."
[10] "The active oxidation states of supported metal catalysts, such as Cu, Ag, and Au can be discussed by IR spectroscopy, UVVis spectroscopy, XRD, XPS, EXAFS, and electron microscopy. Comparison of the catalytic and the spectroscopic data reveals that metal cations are the active sites of the metal catalyst surface in alcohol oxidation. 84"
[11] "The activity and stability of solid catalysts for methane-CO2 reforming depend on the formation of carbon deposits due to methane decomposition into C and H2. 89 This carbon deposited on a metal site can be reoxidized to CO by oxygen coming from the dissociation of adsorbed CO2. For noble metals, this oxidation of deposited carbon is fast, leading to low carbon accumulation on the metal particles.89 What is remarkable is that the rate of carbon formation from methane was proportional to the concentration of Lewis acids. Thus, the combination of Pt with a support with a low Lewis acidity such as ZrO2 was found more suitable for long stability of the catalysts."
[12] "Partial oxidation of propane to syngas has been carried out in a flow reactor using as catalyst nickel oxide supported on alumina, magnesia, and silica. 92 Alumina-supported NiO was found the most suitable catalyst. Modification of these catalysts by alkali metal oxides or rare-earth oxide reduces the strength of the Lewis acid sites, and by decreasing the carbon deposition increases the stability and lifetime of the catalyst during propane partial oxidation.92"
[13] "The applicability of surface science techniques to obtain insights on the mechanism of heterogeneous reactions catalyzed by metal oxides has been exemplified in the dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene to styrene catalyzed by iron oxide. 95 The information provided by surface science techniques in ultrahigh vacuum has been combined with batch reactor measurements at high pressure.95 Ethylbenzene and styrene adsorb on regular terrace sites with their phenyl rings oriented parallel to the surface. The π electron cloud of the aromatic rings interact with the Lewis acidic atoms on the surface. Atomic defects are identified as catalytically active sites. A complete mechanistic description of the process at the atomic level is proposed in which the upward tilted ethyl group of flat adsorbed ethylbenzene is dehydrogenated at Brnsted basic oxygens located at defects."
[14] "The conversion of methane into methyl formate with high molar yields (>12%) has been attained by a two reactor system. In the first one, the partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde is accomplished at 600700 C on SiO2. Subsequently, formaldehyde is dimerized to methyl formate through a Cannizzaro disproportionation at 130170 C on various metal oxides, including titania, silica, zirconia, and sulfated zirconia. 96"
[15] "Formaldehyde selectivity was found to depend on the percentage of iron on the support, the nature of the support, and the reaction temperature. Compared to silica, molybdenum oxide as support favors the formation of formaldehyde. This higher selectivity is related to the formation of iron molybdate as the active catalytic phase. FT-IR data indicate that the first step in all reaction processes is the generation of adsorbed iron-methoxy species.97"
[16] "Molybdena supported on titania prepared from aqueous solutions of ammonium heptamolybdate and titania or by mechanical mixing of both oxides is also very active for the partial oxidation of methanol. 98"
[17] "From the catalytic tests in fixed-bed flow reactors, it has been found that the activity toward C2 products increases with catalyst basicity, while an increase in the Lewis acidity of the Bi cation leads to an enhancement of the ethene selectivity.99"
[18] "As mentioned for the case of supported vanadium oxides as catalysts for liquid-phase reactions, the possibility of metal leaching and subsequent homogeneous phase catalysis by the leached metal should be addressed in this type of catalyst."
[19] "Likewise, heterogeneization of cobalt atoms by simple coprecipitation in the formation of silica gels using Co(OAc)2 has been reported to be effective for the side chain oxidation of alkylaromatic using tert-butyl hydroperoxide as oxidant. Diffuse reflectance UVVis and IR spectra of the solid seem to support the presence of tetrahedral Co(II) (detached from acetate anions) in the silica framework. 101"
[20] "Ozone and several of its 18O-labeled isotopomers have been adsorbed on metal oxides such as silica, titania, zirconia, magnesia, and ceria at liquid N2 temperature. 102 Ozone behaves as a weak basic molecule and interacts with surface hydroxyl groups. With weak Lewis acid sites, ozone molecules form coordination adducts via a terminal oxygen atom, with stronger Lewis acid sites (such as titania, alumina, and zinc oxide) no evidence of a Lewis adduct is obtained. Apparently, ozone dissociates on these sites generating highly reactive oxygen atoms. These oxygen atoms can participate in the catalytic oxidation of CO on oxide surfaces. 103"
[21] "An IR study of adsorbed CO, NH3, C3H6, C3D6, and C3H6-O2 on oxidized and reduced samples of mixed titaniumantimony oxide showed that both oxidized and reduced solids contain basic sites, but lack of strong Lewis acid centers. 104 Interaction of propene occurs through the CH bond of the methyl group with the basic sites.104"
[22] "Several solids have been developed for the MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer reactions exhibiting the typical advantages with respect to homogeneous catalysts, like easy handling and workup and recycling. A review discussing the use of amorphous metallic oxides and zeolites, particularly Beta and silicalite as catalysts for the MeerweinPonndorfVerley reaction has recently appeared. 106 Amorphous metallic oxides and zeolites that exhibit surface basicity or Lewis acidity are generally the solids used as catalysts for this type of disproportionation."
[23] "A natural bentonite pillared with aluminum, aluminumiron, and aluminumruthenium polyoxocations has been further ion exchanged with iron. 112 All these solids were active materials for the catalytic transformation of propene into acetone at temperatures between 150 and 350 C.112 The reaction proceed via acid-catalyzed propene hydration followed by dehydrogenation of 2-propanol to acetone. Accordingly, the activity of the solids correlates with the nature and population of the redox and acid sites.112"
[24] "K10-montmorillonite and 4A molecular sieves catalyze the oxidation of secondary benzylic alcohols by tert-butyl hydroperoxide in good yield and selectivity, except when an electron-donating group is present in the 4-position of the phenyl ring. 113 The reaction mechanism was assumed to involve an Oppenauer-type oxidation. Using zeolite 13X as catalyst, a very enhanced activity was observed and interpreted as reflecting the fact that the reactants can be accommodated inside the zeolite cavities. However, besides the fast formation of carbonylic compounds, other competitive side reactions take place lowering the resulting selectivity.113"

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) is a complex process that involves the interplay between various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. The challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are influenced by factors such as the nature of the catalyst, the reaction conditions, and the proposed reaction mechanisms. The C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction are key steps in the ODH process. The efficiency of the process is influenced by the ability of the catalyst to activate the C-H bond and facilitate the subsequent steps. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by preventing the formation of undesired products through secondary reactions.
2.The activity of the catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes depends on the identity of the cation and increases in the order VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. The activation energy for propane oxidative dehydrogenation is higher than that for propene combustion, but the relative rates of these reactions also depend on the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane. The Lewis acidity of the cations influences the adsorption enthalpies and thus affects the activation energy and selectivity of the reactions.
3.The highest propene yields require a solid containing redox sites of adequate potential combined with strong Lewis acid sites and mild basic sites. The activity of vanadium oxide can be promoted by Lewis acid assistance of the support, such as in alkane oxidation. The presence of niobia enhances the activity of vanadia for reactions that require a dual nature of redox and acid sites, such as butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the selective oxidation of ammonia by NOx.
4.The basic environment generated by the MgO support causes a parallel decrease of the Lewis acidity, influencing the oxidizing power of the active V ions. The activity of Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox supported on δ-alumina, titania, silica, niobia, and zirconia for the direct conversion of propane to acrolein increases as the amount of Lewis acid sites surrounding the redox active VOx species present on the solid increases.
5.Vanadium ions present on vanadium oxide act as redox sites, but when supported on zirconia and titania, they also act as Lewis acid sites strong enough to form π complexes with toluene and m-xylene. The methyl group of these π complexes becomes activated and undergoes hydrogen abstraction by the VO group, leading to benzylic species and benzaldehyde.
6.The strength of the acid sites and the phthalic anhydride yield in the oxidation of ortho-xylene to phthalic anhydride correlate with the nature of the support. The activity of supported metal catalysts, such as Cu, Ag, and Au, can be discussed by various spectroscopic techniques, revealing that metal cations are the active sites of the metal catalyst surface in alcohol oxidation.
7.The stability and lifetime of solid catalysts for methane-CO2 reforming depend on the formation of carbon deposits due to methane decomposition into C and H2. The rate of carbon formation from methane is proportional to the concentration of Lewis acids. The combination of Pt with a support with a low Lewis acidity, such as ZrO2, is more suitable for long stability of the catalysts.
8.Alumina-supported NiO is the most suitable catalyst for partial oxidation of propane to syngas. Modification of these catalysts by alkali metal oxides or rare-earth oxide reduces the strength of the Lewis acid sites, decreasing the carbon deposition and increasing the stability and lifetime of the catalyst during propane partial oxidation.
9.The dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene to styrene catalyzed by iron oxide involves the interaction of ethylbenzene and styrene with the Lewis acidic atoms on the surface. Atomic defects are identified as catalytically active sites. The upward tilted ethyl group of flat adsorbed ethylbenzene is dehydrogenated at Brnsted basic oxygens located at defects.
10.The conversion of methane into methyl formate with high molar yields can be achieved by a two-reactor system. The partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde is accomplished at 600-700 C on SiO2, and subsequently, formaldehyde is dimerized to methyl formate through a Cannizzaro disproportionation at 130-170 C on various metal oxides.
11.Formaldehyde selectivity depends on the percentage of iron on the support, the nature of the support, and the reaction temperature. Molybdenum oxide as support favors the formation of formaldehyde, which is related to the formation of iron molybdate as the active catalytic phase. The first step in all reaction processes is the generation of adsorbed iron-methoxy species.
12.Molybdena supported on titania is very active for the partial oxidation of methanol. The activity toward C2 products increases with catalyst basicity, while an increase in the Lewis acidity of the Bi cation leads to an enhancement of the ethene selectivity.
13.The possibility of metal leaching and subsequent homogeneous phase catalysis by the leached metal should be addressed in catalysts for liquid-phase reactions. Cobalt atoms can be heterogeneized by simple coprecipitation in the formation of silica gels, which is effective for the side chain oxidation of alkylaromatic using tert-butyl hydroperoxide as oxidant.
14.Ozone molecules form coordination adducts via a terminal oxygen atom with weak Lewis acid sites, while with stronger Lewis acid sites, no evidence of a Lewis adduct is obtained. Ozone dissociates on these sites, generating highly reactive oxygen atoms that can participate in the catalytic oxidation of CO on oxide surfaces.
15.Both oxidized and reduced mixed titaniumantimony oxide contain basic sites but lack strong Lewis acid centers. Propene interacts with the CH bond of the methyl group with the basic sites. Amorphous metallic oxides and zeolites that exhibit surface basicity or Lewis acidity are generally used as catalysts for the MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer reactions.
16.A natural bentonite pillared with aluminum, aluminumiron, and aluminumruthenium polyoxocations further ion exchanged with iron is active for the catalytic transformation of propene into acetone. The reaction proceeds via acid-catalyzed propene hydration followed by dehydrogenation of 2-propanol to acetone. The activity of the solids correlates with the nature and population of the redox and acid sites.
17.K10-montmorillonite and 4A molecular sieves catalyze the oxidation of secondary benzylic alcohols by tert-butyl hydroperoxide in good yield and selectivity, except when an electron-donating group is present in the 4-position of the phenyl ring. Using zeolite 13X as a catalyst, a very enhanced activity is observed, reflecting the fact that the reactants can be accommodated inside the zeolite cavities. However, other competitive side reactions take place, lowering the resulting selectivity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃氧化脱氢(ODH)是一个复杂的过程，涉及各种催化剂(包括块状金属氧化物和支撑系统)之间的相互作用。实现高选择性和转化率的挑战受到催化剂性质、反应条件和提出的反应机制(如C-H键活化、M-烷基中间体和2H-抽提)的影响。过程效率受催化剂活化C-H键和促进后续步骤的能力影响。位点隔离在解决选择性问题中起着关键作用，通过防止通过二次反应形成不需要的产品。
2.烷烃氧化脱氢催化剂的活性取决于氧化物的性质，按VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2的顺序增加。丙烷氧化脱氢的活化能高于丙烯燃烧，但这些反应的相对速率也取决于丙烯和丙烷的吸附焓。Lewis酸性影响吸附焓，从而影响反应的活化能和选择性。
3.最高丙烯产率需要固体含有适当电位的氧化还原位点，结合强Lewis酸位点和温和的碱性位点。钒氧化物的活性可以通过支撑材料的Lewis酸辅助来提高，例如在烷烃氧化中。铌的存在显著增强了对需要氧化还原和酸性双重性质的催化反应(如丁烷氧化为马来酸酐和NOx选择性氧化氨)的活性。
4.由MgO支撑产生的碱性环境导致Lewis酸性的平行降低，影响活性V离子的氧化能力。Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox在δ-Al2O3、TiO2、SiO2、Nb2O5和ZrO2上的活性随着支撑VOx活性物种周围Lewis酸位点数量的增加而增加。
5.当支撑在ZrO2和TiO2上时，钒离子除了作为氧化还原位点外，还作为强到足以与甲苯和间二甲苯形成π复合物的Lewis酸位点。这些π复合物的甲基基团被VO基团活化，发生氢抽提，生成苄基物种和苯甲醛。
6.邻二甲苯氧化为邻苯二甲酸酐的酸位强度和邻苯二甲酸酐产率与支撑材料的性质相关。Cu、Ag和Au等金属催化剂的活性位点可以通过各种光谱技术进行讨论，揭示金属阳离子是金属催化剂表面在醇氧化中的活性位点。
7.固体催化剂在甲烷-CO2重整中的稳定性和寿命取决于甲烷分解为C和H2形成的碳沉积。甲烷形成碳的速率与Lewis酸浓度成正比。Pt与ZrO2等低Lewis酸性支撑材料的组合更适合催化剂的长期稳定性。
8.氧化铝支撑的NiO是最适合丙烷部分氧化为合成气的催化剂。通过碱金属氧化物或稀土氧化物改性这些催化剂可以降低Lewis酸位点的强度，减少碳沉积，提高丙烷部分氧化过程中催化剂的稳定性和寿命。
9.铁氧化物催化乙苯脱氢为苯乙烯涉及乙苯和苯乙烯与表面Lewis酸性原子的相互作用。原子缺陷被鉴定为催化活性位点。吸附在表面的乙苯的向上倾斜的乙基基团在缺陷处的Brnsted碱性氧上脱氢。
10.通过两反应器系统可以实现高摩尔产率的甲烷转化为甲酸甲酯。在SiO2上于600-700°C下完成甲烷的部分氧化为甲醛，随后在各种金属氧化物上通过Cannizzaro歧化将甲醛二聚为甲酸甲酯。
11.甲醛选择性取决于支撑材料上铁的百分比、支撑材料的性质和反应温度。以MoO3为支撑材料有利于甲醛的形成，这与铁钼酸盐作为活性催化相的形成有关。所有反应过程的第一步是吸附铁甲氧基物种的生成。
12.支撑在TiO2上的MoO3对甲醇的部分氧化非常活跃。C2产物的活性随催化剂碱性增加而增加，而Bi阳离子的Lewis酸性增加导致乙烯选择性的增强。
13.在液相反应的催化剂中，应考虑金属浸出和随后由浸出金属引起的均相催化。通过简单共沉淀将钴原子异质化形成硅胶，对使用叔丁基过氧化物作为氧化剂的烷基芳烃侧链氧化有效。
14.在弱Lewis酸位点，臭氧分子通过终端氧原子形成配位加合物，而在强Lewis酸位点(如TiO2、Al2O3和ZnO)，没有证据表明存在Lewis加合物。臭氧在这些位点上解离，生成高度反应性的氧原子，可以参与氧化物表面上CO的催化氧化。
15.氧化和还原的混合钛-锑氧化物都含有碱性位点，但缺乏强Lewis酸中心。丙烯通过甲基基团的CH键与碱性位点相互作用。具有表面碱性或Lewis酸性的无定形金属氧化物和沸石通常用作MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer反应的催化剂。
16.用铝、铝铁和铝钌多氧酸盐柱化的天然膨润土进一步与铁离子交换，对丙烯催化转化为丙酮是活性的。反应通过酸催化的丙烯水合，随后2-丙醇脱氢为丙酮。固体的活性与氧化还原和酸位点的性质和数量相关。
17.K10蒙脱石和4A分子筛催化叔丁基过氧化物对二级苄醇的氧化，具有良好的产率和选择性，除非在苯环的4位存在电子供体基团。使用13X沸石作为催化剂，观察到非常增强的活性，这反映了反应物可以容纳在沸石孔隙中的事实。然而，除了快速形成羰基化合物外，其他竞争性副反应也会发生，从而降低最终的选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
