<quotes>

[1] "A similar reaction cycle is claimed by ARCO to occur with tetra-alkylammonium salts of the anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, giving good yields of propylene epoxide."
[2] "Transition metal substituted molecular sieves have also been used as selective catalysts for oxidizing saturated hydrocarbons using molecular oxygen. For instance, V-containing silicalite showed activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
[3] "The success of vanadium silicalite for the above reaction is attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation together with the absence of Brnsted acidity and a limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to the presence of stable VOSi bonds containing nonelectrophilic bridging oxygen ions, and a stable coordination of vanadium."
[4] "Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could, in principle, in the presence of oxygen and saturated hydrocarbons favor the production of the free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process."
[5] "Indeed, chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, in the presence of small amounts of alkyl hydroperoxide initiator."
[6] "Unfortunately, the system is not fully heterogeneous due to some leaching of Cr3+ occurring during the reaction."
[7] "Similarly, the use of acetic acid solvent during the aerobic oxidation of cyclohexane to adipic acid using CoAPO-5 results in leaching of cobalt, being the leached cobalt responsible for the catalytic activity."
[8] "When conversion level increases the acids formed in consecutive reactions enhances considerably Co leaching."
[9] "Recently, MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent."
[10] "A novel concept and very promising system to effect the oxidation of alkanes and unsaturated hydrocarbons consists of taking advantage of the electrostatic fields experienced inside the zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, to stablize the collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons."
[11] "The hydrocarbon oxygen complexes undergoes a considerable stabilization (up to 8 kcal/mol). This stabilization can be experimentally demonstrated by measuring in the UVVis spectrum the λmax of the corresponding CT complexes and observing a gradual shift toward longer wavelengths as the Coulombic fields inside the zeolite cages increase."
[12] "By selective excitation of these CT complexes with visible red light, the corresponding hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity."
[13] "The proposed reaction mechanism is indicated in Scheme 46 and is thought to involve and initial electron transfer within the alkaneoxygen complex followed by hydrogen abstraction with the formation in a cage of a geminate carbon centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical."
[14] "This radical pair readily recombines to the alkylhydroperoxide."
[15] "In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized."
[16] "A heterogeneous cobalt catalyst based on an immobilized trimeric cobalt complex on MCM-41 has been claimed for the conversion of cyclohexane to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone in an aerobic system using the substrate as solvent."
[17] "Again leaching may be an issue when adipic acid will be formed at higher conversion levels."
[18] "A large effort has been done for the development of soluble metal and metal complexes able to oxidize long chain olefins in liquid phase using O2 as a direct oxidant."
[19] "In general it can be said that the most important limitations for the use of liquid-phase olefin epoxidation using solid catalysts are the low rates and low turnover frequencies, together with the too low selectivity to the desired epoxide owing to the presence of less desired free radical chain reactions."
[20] "A recent work has showed that Co and MnAlPO-18 is a regioselective oxidation catalyst for n-alkanes."
[21] "Because of the end-on approach of the n-paraffin in ALPO-18, owing to the pore dimensions and topology of this molecular sieve, only the C1 and C2 positions are preferentially oxidized."
[22] "When other structures with larger pore dimensions (AlPO-36 and AlPO-5) are used, oxyfunctionalization is predominant at the C3 and C4 positions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) has been studied using various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. ARCO reported a reaction cycle with tetra-alkylammonium salts of anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, yielding good results for propylene epoxide. V-containing silicalite has shown activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.
2.The success of vanadium silicalite in ODH is attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation, the absence of Brnsted acidity, and the limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to stable VOSi bonds and a stable coordination of vanadium. Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, and FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could favor the production of free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process.
3.CrAPO-5 was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, but the system is not fully heterogeneous due to leaching of Cr3+ during the reaction. CoAPO-5 also showed activity for the aerobic oxidation of cyclohexane to adipic acid, but leaching of cobalt occurred, especially at higher conversion levels. MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported as stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane.
4.A novel concept for ODH involves using the electrostatic fields inside zeolite supercages to stabilize collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and hydrocarbons. This stabilization can be demonstrated by measuring the UVVis spectrum of the CT complexes and observing a shift toward longer wavelengths as the Coulombic fields inside the zeolite cages increase. By selectively exciting these CT complexes with visible red light, hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity.
5.The proposed reaction mechanism involves an initial electron transfer within the alkane-oxygen complex, followed by hydrogen abstraction to form a geminate carbon-centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical in a cage. This radical pair readily recombines to form the alkylhydroperoxide. In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role, merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized.
6.A heterogeneous cobalt catalyst based on an immobilized trimeric cobalt complex on MCM-41 has been claimed for the conversion of cyclohexane to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone in an aerobic system using the substrate as solvent. However, leaching may be an issue at higher conversion levels when adipic acid is formed.
7.A large effort has been made to develop soluble metal and metal complexes that can oxidize long chain olefins in liquid phase using O2 as a direct oxidant. The most important limitations for liquid-phase olefin epoxidation using solid catalysts are low rates, low turnover frequencies, and low selectivity to the desired epoxide due to the presence of less desired free radical chain reactions.
8.Co and MnAlPO-18 have been reported as regioselective oxidation catalysts for n-alkanes. Due to the pore dimensions and topology of ALPO-18, only the C1 and C2 positions are preferentially oxidized. When other structures with larger pore dimensions (AlPO-36 and AlPO-5) are used, oxyfunctionalization is predominant at the C3 and C4 positions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃氧化脱氢(ODH)已使用各种催化剂(包括块状金属氧化物和支撑系统)进行了研究。ARCO报告了使用四烷基铵盐的蒽醌-2,6-二磺酸盐在甲醇水溶液中的反应循环,对丙烯环氧化物产生了良好的结果。
2.钒硅酸盐在ODH中的成功归因于钒(V)作为唯一的氧激活位点的存在,没有Brnsted酸性,并且由于稳定的VOSi键和钒的稳定配位,对氧插入或烯烃在烯丙基位置的活化具有有限的倾向。Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII和FeIII等过渡金属在分子筛AlPO型结构中替代,可能有利于产生参与氧功能化过程的自由基。
3.CrAPO-5在液相中对环己烷的自氧化为环己酮具有活性,但该系统由于Cr3+在反应过程中发生浸出而不完全异质。CoAPO-5也对环己烷的有氧氧化为己二酸显示出活性,但在较高转化率下会发生钴的浸出。MnAPO-18和MnAPO-36已被报告为环己烷自氧化的稳定催化剂。
4.一种用于ODH的新概念涉及利用沸石超笼中的静电场来稳定分子氧与烃之间的碰撞电荷转移复合物。这种稳定化可以通过测量CT复合物的UVVis光谱并观察沸石笼内库仑场增加时向更长波长的逐渐偏移来证明。通过使用可见红光选择性激发这些CT复合物,几乎完全选择性地形成相应的过氧化氢。
5.提出的反应机制涉及烷氧复合物内的初始电子转移,随后在笼中形成孪生碳中心自由基和过氧自由基的氢原子抽提。这种自由基对迅速重组形成烷基过氧化物。在这种选择性氧化烃中,沸石仅起到被动作用,仅定义了CT复合物变得稳定的高极性反应腔。
6.基于MCM-41上固定化的三聚钴复合物的异质钴催化剂已被声称用于使用底物作为溶剂的有氧系统中环己烷转化为环己醇和环己酮。然而,当在较高转化率下形成己二酸时,浸出可能是一个问题。
7.为开发能够在液相中使用O2作为直接氧化剂氧化长链烯烃的可溶性金属和金属复合物付出了巨大努力。使用固体催化剂进行液相烯烃环氧化的最重要限制是低速率,低周转频率以及由于存在较少期望的自由基链反应而对所需环氧化物的低选择性。
8.Co和MnAlPO-18已被报告为n-烷烃的区域选择性氧化催化剂。由于ALPO-18的孔径和拓扑结构,仅C1和C2位置被优先氧化。当使用具有较大孔径(AlPO-36和AlPO-5)的其他结构时,氧功能化主要发生在C3和C4位置。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
