<quotes>

[1] "The activation energy of this step depends on the identity of the cation and increases in the order VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation activation energies are higher than those for propene combustion, but the relative rates of these reactions most probably also depends on the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane. The latter parameter is mainly influenced by the Lewis acidity of the cations through π bonding with the CC double bond. This explains the observed difference in activation energy between propane oxidative dehydrogenation and propene combustion, that increases as the Lewis acidity of the cations increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+)."
[2] "For all the supported vanadium oxide catalysts, the vanadium loading is a parameter of paramount importance in the catalytic activity of the solid. As the vanadium loading increases, aggregation occurs, thus, varying the nature of the vanadium species and their catalytic properties."
[3] "The catalytic activity of vanadium oxide can be promoted by Lewis acid assistance of the support as, for instance, in alkane oxidation."
[4] "The activity of Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox supported on δ-alumina, titania, silica, niobia, and zirconia for the direct conversion of propane to acrolein has been found to increase as the amount of Lewis acid sites surrounding the redox active VOx species present on the solid increases."
[5] "Although vanadium ions present on vanadium oxide act generally as redox sites, when supported on zirconia and titania they act as well as Lewis acid sites strong enough to form π complexes with toluene and m-xylene as evidenced by IR spectroscopy."
[6] "Lateral chain oxidation of alkylaromatics is an industrial process of paramount importance that can be also catalyzed by vanadium oxides."
[7] "The activity toward C2 products increases with catalyst basicity, while an increase in the Lewis acidity of the Bi cation leads to an enhancement of the ethene selectivity."
[8] "The conversion of methane into methyl formate with high molar yields (>12%) has been attained by a two reactor system. In the first one, the partial oxidation of methane to formaldehyde is accomplished at 600700 C on SiO2. Subsequently, formaldehyde is dimerized to methyl formate through a Cannizzaro disproportionation at 130170 C on various metal oxides, including titania, silica, zirconia, and sulfated zirconia."
[9] "Partial oxidation by oxygen of methanol to formaldehyde has been studied over SiO2- or MoO3-supported ferric oxide in supercritical CO2 at 90 bar."
[10] "Molybdena supported on titania prepared from aqueous solutions of ammonium heptamolybdate and titania or by mechanical mixing of both oxides is also very active for the partial oxidation of methanol."
[11] "Fine-tuning of the Lewis acid/base properties of the surface pairs has been proposed as the important factor to control the activity and selectivity for the oxidative coupling of methane using solid solutions of rare earth and bismuth oxides."
[12] "FeAl mixed oxide exhibiting activity as catalyst for the liquid-phase cumene oxidation."
[13] "Ozone and several of its 18O-labeled isotopomers have been adsorbed on metal oxides such as silica, titania, zirconia, magnesia, and ceria at liquid N2 temperature."
[14] "An IR study of adsorbed CO, NH3, C3H6, C3D6, and C3H6-O2 on oxidized and reduced samples of mixed titaniumantimony oxide showed that both oxidized and reduced solids contain basic sites, but lack of strong Lewis acid centers."
[15] "Several solids have been developed for the MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer reactions exhibiting the typical advantages with respect to homogeneous catalysts, like easy handling and workup and recycling."
[16] "Layered clays have been extensively used as acid catalysts and as supports for oxidants (clayfen and claycop) and Lewis acids (clayzic)."
[17] "A natural bentonite pillared with aluminum, aluminumiron, and aluminumruthenium polyoxocations has been further ion exchanged with iron."
[18] "K10-montmorillonite and 4A molecular sieves catalyze the oxidation of secondary benzylic alcohols by tert-butyl hydroperoxide in good yield and selectivity, except when an electron-donating group is present in the 4-position of the phenyl ring."
[19] "All Lewis acid catalysts active in the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons contain transition metal cation of d0 or d10 configuration."
[20] "The interaction of weakly basic unsaturated hydrocarbons with transition metal ions has been considered as weak base (hydrocarbon)strong acid (d0 cations), or weak base (hydrocarbon)weak acid (d10 cations) interactions."
[21] "Transition metals that react through peroxometalic species are Ti, Zr, Mo, and W."
[22] "Polyoxometalates and heteropolyacids are obtained by the condensation of two or more different types of oxoanions."
[23] "Heteropolyacids are mainly Brnsted acids."
[24] "Product distribution (propene or acetone) upon 2-propanol adsorption and FT-IR spectroscopy of adsorbed pyridine has been proposed as a test reaction to titrate the Brnsted and Lewis acid sites of commercial phosphomolybdic acid (Brnsted plus Lewis sites) or n-hexylammonium phosphomolybdate (exclusively Lewis sites) supported on silica."
[25] "Polyoxometalates and phosphotungstates have been reported to act as catalysts for the direct formation of N-alkylacetamides and alkyl halides from adamantane, cyclohexane, and cyclooctane by reactiving them in acetonitrile or in halogenated solvents, respectively."
[26] "The oxidation of isobutane to methacrolein and methacrylic acid has been carried out over potassium/ammonium salts of phosphomolybdic acid of the Keggin-type with an overall selectivity to the desired products higher than 50%."
[27] "Oxidation of propene to acetone has been studied over silica and alumina supported molybdophosphoric acid catalysts at 190 C in the presence of water."
[28] "Heteropolytungstates have been immobilized by anion exchange with quaternary ammonium modified silica"
[29] "Heteropolyacids having a defect structure incorporating a transition metal can catalyze the oxidation of alkylaromatics with molecular oxygen to aromatic carboxylic acids in acid media."
[30] "A method to effect the oxidative degradation of soluble lignin and polysaccharide fragments dissolved during polyoxometalate delignification of pulps and fibers with oxygen has been reported."
[31] "Laser excitation of solid catalysts in the near-IR region can stimulate methane partial oxidation."
[32] "Zeolites are crystalline aluminosilicates whose lattice consists of a network of SiO44- and AlO45- tetrahedra with Si or Al atoms at the centers and oxygen atoms in each corner."
[33] "Concerning the chemical composition of the framework, the most important parameter is the Si/Al ratio."
[34] "Concerning the crystal structure of zeolites, the long-range ordering of the primary tetrahedra defines nondeformable channels and cavities of strictly uniform dimensions on the molecular scale (nanometer dimensions)."
[35] "Brnsted acid sites in zeolites are due to hydroxyl groups bridging a Si and Al atom."
[36] "Zeolites may contain Lewis sites in addition to Brnsted sites."
[37] "Finally, the interaction with EFAL Lewis sites is expected to enhance the strength of Brnsted sites also present."
[38] "In the case of zeolites, transition metal elements can be introduced in different structures, different oxidation states, and coordinations, either as extraframework exchanged cations, supported metal clusters, supported metal oxides, complexes or as lattice cations."
[39] "For instance, Mn2+, Ni2+, and Co2+ ion exchanged X zeolite is able to oxidize n-hexane with O2 in liquid phase to yield 70 to 80% selectivity to acetic acid."
[40] "Chromium oxide supported on mesoporous MCM-41 as well as Zr- or La-doped silica has been found to be an active catalyst for the dehydrogenation of propane at temperatures between 350 and 550 C."
[41] "Ethylene and propylene have been oxidized using transition metals on zeolites."
[42] "Propylene can be oxidized to acetone by Mo or Pd/Cu exchanged Y zeolites."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The activation energy for the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes depends on the identity of the cation, with the order being VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. The activation energy for propane oxidative dehydrogenation is higher than for propene combustion, but the relative rates of these reactions are influenced by the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane. The Lewis acidity of the cations, through π bonding with the CC double bond, affects the observed difference in activation energy between propane oxidative dehydrogenation and propene combustion.
2.Vanadium loading is a crucial parameter in the catalytic activity of supported vanadium oxide catalysts. As the vanadium loading increases, aggregation occurs, altering the nature of the vanadium species and their catalytic properties.
3.The catalytic activity of vanadium oxide can be enhanced by the assistance of Lewis acid sites on the support, as seen in alkane oxidation.
4.The activity of Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox supported on δ-alumina, titania, silica, niobia, and zirconia for the direct conversion of propane to acrolein increases with the amount of Lewis acid sites surrounding the redox active VOx species.
5.When supported on zirconia and titania, vanadium ions act as Lewis acid sites strong enough to form π complexes with toluene and m-xylene.
6.Lateral chain oxidation of alkylaromatics is an important industrial process that can be catalyzed by vanadium oxides.
7.The activity toward C2 products increases with catalyst basicity, while an increase in the Lewis acidity of the Bi cation leads to an enhancement of the ethene selectivity.
8.A two-reactor system has been developed to convert methane into methyl formate with high molar yields. In the first reactor, methane is partially oxidized to formaldehyde on SiO2, and in the second reactor, formaldehyde is dimerized to methyl formate on various metal oxides.
9.Partial oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde has been studied over SiO2- or MoO3-supported ferric oxide in supercritical CO2 at 90 bar.
10.Molybdena supported on titania is very active for the partial oxidation of methanol.
11.Fine-tuning of the Lewis acid/base properties of the surface pairs is crucial for controlling the activity and selectivity for the oxidative coupling of methane using solid solutions of rare earth and bismuth oxides.
12.FeAl mixed oxide is active as a catalyst for the liquid-phase cumene oxidation.
13.Ozone and its isotopomers have been adsorbed on metal oxides such as silica, titania, zirconia, magnesia, and ceria at liquid N2 temperature.
14.Both oxidized and reduced samples of mixed titaniumantimony oxide contain basic sites but lack strong Lewis acid centers.
15.Several solids have been developed for the MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer reactions, offering advantages such as easy handling and workup and recycling.
16.Layered clays have been extensively used as acid catalysts and as supports for oxidants and Lewis acids.
17.A natural bentonite pillared with aluminum, aluminumiron, and aluminumruthenium polyoxocations has been further ion exchanged with iron.
18.K10-montmorillonite and 4A molecular sieves catalyze the oxidation of secondary benzylic alcohols by tert-butyl hydroperoxide in good yield and selectivity.
19.All Lewis acid catalysts active in the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons contain transition metal cations of d0 or d10 configuration.
20.The interaction of weakly basic unsaturated hydrocarbons with transition metal ions is considered as weak base (hydrocarbon)strong acid (d0 cations) or weak base (hydrocarbon)weak acid (d10 cations) interactions.
21.Transition metals that react through peroxometalic species are Ti, Zr, Mo, and W.
22.Polyoxometalates and heteropolyacids are obtained by the condensation of two or more different types of oxoanions.
23.Heteropolyacids are mainly Brnsted acids.
24.Product distribution upon 2-propanol adsorption and FT-IR spectroscopy of adsorbed pyridine have been proposed as a test reaction to titrate the Brnsted and Lewis acid sites of supported phosphomolybdic acid.
25.Polyoxometalates and phosphotungstates act as catalysts for the direct formation of N-alkylacetamides and alkyl halides from adamantane, cyclohexane, and cyclooctane.
26.The oxidation of isobutane to methacrolein and methacrylic acid has been carried out over potassium/ammonium salts of phosphomolybdic acid with high selectivity.
27.Oxidation of propene to acetone has been studied over silica and alumina supported molybdophosphoric acid catalysts.
28.Heteropolytungstates have been immobilized by anion exchange with quaternary ammonium modified silica.
29.Heteropolyacids with a defect structure incorporating a transition metal can catalyze the oxidation of alkylaromatics with molecular oxygen to aromatic carboxylic acids in acid media.
30.A method to effect the oxidative degradation of soluble lignin and polysaccharide fragments dissolved during polyoxometalate delignification of pulps and fibers with oxygen has been reported.
31.Laser excitation of solid catalysts in the near-IR region can stimulate methane partial oxidation.
32.Zeolites are crystalline aluminosilicates with a network of SiO44- and AlO45- tetrahedra.
33.The Si/Al ratio is the most important parameter concerning the chemical composition of the zeolite framework.
34.The long-range ordering of the primary tetrahedra in zeolites defines nondeformable channels and cavities of uniform dimensions on the molecular scale.
35.Brnsted acid sites in zeolites are due to hydroxyl groups bridging a Si and Al atom.
36.Zeolites may contain Lewis sites in addition to Brnsted sites.
37.The interaction with EFAL Lewis sites is expected to enhance the strength of Brnsted sites also present.
38.Transition metal elements can be introduced into zeolites in different structures, oxidation states, and coordinations.
39.Mn2+, Ni2+, and Co2+ ion exchanged X zeolite can oxidize n-hexane with O2 in liquid phase to yield 70 to 80% selectivity to acetic acid.
40.Chromium oxide supported on mesoporous MCM-41 and Zr- or La-doped silica is an active catalyst for the dehydrogenation of propane.
41.Ethylene and propylene have been oxidized using transition metals on zeolites.
42.Propylene can be oxidized to acetone by Mo or Pd/Cu exchanged Y zeolites.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃氧化脱氢的活化能取决于阳离子的种类，其顺序为VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2。丙烷氧化脱氢的活化能高于丙烯燃烧，但这些反应的相对速率可能也取决于丙烯和丙烷的吸附焓。Lewis酸性阳离子通过π键与CC双键的相互作用解释了丙烷氧化脱氢和丙烯燃烧之间观察到的活化能差异的增加。
2.对于所有负载的五氧化二钒催化剂，五氧化二钒的负载量是固体催化活性的关键参数。随着五氧化二钒负载量的增加，会发生聚集，从而改变五氧化二钒物种的性质和催化性能。
3.五氧化二钒的催化活性可以通过支撑材料的Lewis酸性辅助来增强，例如在烷烃氧化中。
4.Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox在δ-氧化铝、二氧化钛、二氧化硅、铌酸盐和氧化锆上支持的活性，对于直接将丙烷转化为丙烯醛的反应，随着固体上红氧活性VOx物种周围Lewis酸位点数量的增加而增加。
5.当在氧化锆和二氧化钛上支撑时，五氧化二钒离子作为Lewis酸位点，强度足以与甲苯和间二甲苯形成π复合物。
6.侧链氧化的烷基芳烃是一个重要的工业过程，也可以通过五氧化二钒催化。
7.对于C2产物的活性随着催化剂碱性的增加而增加，而Bi阳离子的Lewis酸性的增加导致乙烯选择性的增强。
8.通过两反应器系统实现了甲烷向甲酸甲酯的高摩尔产率的转化。在第一个反应器中，在SiO2上实现了甲烷的部分氧化为甲醛，随后在各种金属氧化物上通过Cannizzaro歧化将甲醛二聚为甲酸甲酯。
9.在90巴的超临界CO2中，甲醇向甲醛的部分氧化已经过SiO2或MoO3支撑的氧化铁的研究。
10.从水溶液的铵七钼酸盐和二氧化钛或通过两种氧化物的机械混合制备的二氧化钛上的钼酸盐对甲醇的部分氧化也非常活跃。
11.通过固体溶液中稀土和铋氧化物的Lewis酸/碱性质的精细调节，可以控制氧化甲烷的活性和选择性。
12.FeAl混合氧化物在液相中催化康宁氧化。
13.臭氧及其18O标记的同位素已经在液氮温度下吸附在二氧化硅、二氧化钛、氧化锆、氧化镁和铈酸盐等金属氧化物上。
14.氧化和还原样品的混合钛锑氧化物上的吸附CO、NH3、C3H6、C3D6和C3H6-O2的红外研究显示，这两种氧化物都含有碱性位点，但缺乏强Lewis酸中心。
15.已经开发了多种固体用于MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer反应，与均相催化剂相比具有易于处理和后处理以及回收的优点。
16.层状粘土已广泛用作酸催化剂和氧化剂（clayfen和claycop）以及Lewis酸（clayzic）的支撑。
17.一种天然膨润土与铝、铝铁和铝钌聚氧酸盐交联，进一步与铁离子交换。
18.K10蒙脱石和4A分子筛催化叔丁基过氧化物对二级苄醇的氧化，具有良好的产率和选择性，除非在苯环的4位存在电子供体基团。
19.所有在选择性氧化烃类中活性的Lewis酸催化剂都含有d0或d10构型的过渡金属阳离子。
20.弱碱性不饱和烃与过渡金属离子的相互作用被认为是弱碱（烃）强酸（d0阳离子）或弱碱（烃）弱酸（d10阳离子）的相互作用。
21.通过过氧金属物种反应的过渡金属是Ti、Zr、Mo和W。
22.多金属氧酸盐和杂多酸是由两种或多种不同类型的氧酸盐的缩合获得的。
23.杂多酸主要是Brnsted酸。
24.在2-丙醇吸附和吸附吡啶的FT-IR光谱上提出的产物分布（丙烯或丙酮）被用作测试反应，以滴定商业磷钼酸（Brnsted加Lewis位点）或己基磷钼酸铵（仅Lewis位点）在二氧化硅上的Brnsted和Lewis酸位点。
25.多金属氧酸盐和磷钨酸盐已被报道作为催化剂，用于直接从金刚烷、环己烷和环辛烷在乙腈或卤化溶剂中反应形成N-烷基乙酰胺和烷基卤化物。
26.异丁烷向甲基丙烯醛和甲基丙烯酸的氧化已经在Keggin型的钾/铵盐的磷钼酸盐上进行，对所需产物的总选择性高于50%。
27.在190°C和水存在下，已经研究了二氧化硅和氧化铝支撑的钼磷酸盐催化剂对丙烯的氧化。
28.杂多钨酸盐通过与季铵改性二氧化硅的阴离子交换而被固定。
29.具有掺杂过渡金属的缺陷结构的杂多酸可以在酸性介质中催化烷基芳烃与分子氧的氧化，形成芳香族羧酸。
30.已经报道了一种方法，用于通过氧气对在多金属氧酸盐脱木质素过程中溶解的可溶性木质素和多糖片段的氧化降解。
31.在近红外区域对固体催化剂的激光激发可以刺激甲烷的部分氧化。
32.沸石是具有SiO44-和AlO45-四面体网络的结晶铝硅酸盐，其中Si或Al原子位于中心，氧原子位于每个角落。
33.关于框架的化学组成，最重要的参数是Si/Al比。
34.沸石中主要四面体的长程有序定义了分子尺度（纳米尺寸）上严格均匀尺寸的不可变形通道和空腔。
35.沸石中的Brnsted酸位点是由于Si和Al原子之间的桥接羟基。
36.沸石可能含有除了Brnsted位点之外的Lewis位点。
37.与EFAL Lewis位点的相互作用预计会增强也存在的Brnsted位点的强度。
38.过渡金属元素可以以不同的结构、不同的氧化态和配位引入沸石中，无论是作为框架外交换的阳离子、支撑的金属簇、支撑的金属氧化物、复合物还是晶格阳离子。
39.离子交换的X沸石中的Mn2+、Ni2+和Co2+可以将n-己烷在液相中用O2氧化，产生70至80%的乙酸选择性。
40.在介孔MCM-41和Zr或La掺杂的二氧化硅上支撑的氧化铬是350至550°C下丙烷脱氢的活性催化剂。
41.乙烯和丙烯已经使用沸石上的过渡金属进行氧化。
42.丙烯可以通过Mo或Pd/Cu交换的Y沸石氧化为丙酮。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
