<quotes>

[1] "In the first step, metallic cations act as Lewis acid sites, and the basic sites are surface O= or OH- species. The substrate undergoes hydrogen abstraction, oxygen insertion, and electron transfer. Thus, the active sites require a spatial organization at atomic level and the cooperation of distinctive atoms.31"
[2] "The activation energy of this step depends on the identity of the cation and increases in the order VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation activation energies are higher than those for propene combustion, but the relative rates of these reactions most probably also depends on the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane. The latter parameter is mainly influenced by the Lewis acidity of the cations through π bonding with the CC double bond. This explains the observed difference in activation energy between propane oxidative dehydrogenation and propene combustion, that increases as the Lewis acidity of the cations increases (V5+ < Mo6+ < W6+).64"
[3] "For instance, for the catalytic behavior of δ-alumina-supported vanadium oxide for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and n-butane, it has been observed that the activity for dehydrogenation increases as the vanadium loading, while the selectivity toward alkene formation reaches a maximum at 34 wt %. 66 Apparently, the highest propene yields require of a solid containing redox sites of adequate potential combined with strong Lewis acid sites and mild basic sites.66"
[4] "The catalytic activity of vanadium oxide can be promoted by Lewis acid assistance of the support as, for instance, in alkane oxidation. Thus, studies of the structure and reactivity of group V metal oxides have been carried out by means of methanol adsorption and oxidation. 69 It has been found that the active sites present in pure V2O5 are primarily redox sites and the active sites in pure Nb2O5 are essentially acidic in nature. Furthermore, the surface redox sites present in pure V2O5 are orders of magnitude more active than the surface acid sites in pure Nb2O5 and consequently the catalytic activity of V2O5/Nb2O5 mixed oxides is largely dominated by the vanadia component.69 However, niobia presence enhances significantly the activity of vanadia for those catalytic reactions that require a dual nature of redox and acid sites. This is the case of butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the selective oxidation of ammonia by NOx."
[5] "The activity of Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox supported on δ-alumina, titania, silica, niobia, and zirconia for the direct conversion of propane to acrolein has been found to increase as the amount of Lewis acid sites surrounding the redox active VOx species present on the solid increases. 71"
[6] "Although vanadium ions present on vanadium oxide act generally as redox sites, when supported on zirconia and titania they act as well as Lewis acid sites strong enough to form π complexes with toluene and m-xylene as evidenced by IR spectroscopy. 72 The methyl group of these π complexes becomes activated and undergoes hydrogen abstraction by the VO group leading to benzylic species and benzaldehyde.72"
[7] "The relative low activity toward alkane oxydehydrogenation as compared to other vanadia-supported selective oxidation catalysts such as V2O5/TiO2 and (VO)2P2O7 has been attributed to the basic environment generated by the MgO support, which causes a parallel decrease of the Lewis acidity influencing the oxidizing power of the active V ions. 70"
[8] "The activity of these catalysts was also a function of the surface coverage. At very low conversions, formaldehyde selectivity increases linearly with the surface coverage, indicating that isolated V(V) species are responsible for the catalytic effect. In the case of V2O5 supported on SiO2, the selectivity reaches a maximum at 1%, and the decrease in the selectivity at higher coverages was explained as derived from an increase in the Lewis acid strength of the solid.40"
[9] "The catalytic activity of vanadium oxide can be promoted by Lewis acid assistance of the support as, for instance, in alkane oxidation. Thus, studies of the structure and reactivity of group V metal oxides have been carried out by means of methanol adsorption and oxidation. 69 It has been found that the active sites present in pure V2O5 are primarily redox sites and the active sites in pure Nb2O5 are essentially acidic in nature. Furthermore, the surface redox sites present in pure V2O5 are orders of magnitude more active than the surface acid sites in pure Nb2O5 and consequently the catalytic activity of V2O5/Nb2O5 mixed oxides is largely dominated by the vanadia component.69 However, niobia presence enhances significantly the activity of vanadia for those catalytic reactions that require a dual nature of redox and acid sites. This is the case of butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the selective oxidation of ammonia by NOx."
[10] "The activity of Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox supported on δ-alumina, titania, silica, niobia, and zirconia for the direct conversion of propane to acrolein has been found to increase as the amount of Lewis acid sites surrounding the redox active VOx species present on the solid increases. 71"
[11] "Although vanadium ions present on vanadium oxide act generally as redox sites, when supported on zirconia and titania they act as well as Lewis acid sites strong enough to form π complexes with toluene and m-xylene as evidenced by IR spectroscopy. 72 The methyl group of these π complexes becomes activated and undergoes hydrogen abstraction by the VO group leading to benzylic species and benzaldehyde.72"
[12] "The relative low activity toward alkane oxydehydrogenation as compared to other vanadia-supported selective oxidation catalysts such as V2O5/TiO2 and (VO)2P2O7 has been attributed to the basic environment generated by the MgO support, which causes a parallel decrease of the Lewis acidity influencing the oxidizing power of the active V ions. 70"
[13] "The activity of these catalysts was also a function of the surface coverage. At very low conversions, formaldehyde selectivity increases linearly with the surface coverage, indicating that isolated V(V) species are responsible for the catalytic effect. In the case of V2O5 supported on SiO2, the selectivity reaches a maximum at 1%, and the decrease in the selectivity at higher coverages was explained as derived from an increase in the Lewis acid strength of the solid.40"
[14] "The catalytic activity of vanadium oxide can be promoted by Lewis acid assistance of the support as, for instance, in alkane oxidation. Thus, studies of the structure and reactivity of group V metal oxides have been carried out by means of methanol adsorption and oxidation. 69 It has been found that the active sites present in pure V2O5 are primarily redox sites and the active sites in pure Nb2O5 are essentially acidic in nature. Furthermore, the surface redox sites present in pure V2O5 are orders of magnitude more active than the surface acid sites in pure Nb2O5 and consequently the catalytic activity of V2O5/Nb2O5 mixed oxides is largely dominated by the vanadia component.69 However, niobia presence enhances significantly the activity of vanadia for those catalytic reactions that require a dual nature of redox and acid sites. This is the case of butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the selective oxidation of ammonia by NOx."
[15] "The activity of Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox supported on δ-alumina, titania, silica, niobia, and zirconia for the direct conversion of propane to acrolein has been found to increase as the amount of Lewis acid sites surrounding the redox active VOx species present on the solid increases. 71"
[16] "Although vanadium ions present on vanadium oxide act generally as redox sites, when supported on zirconia and titania they act as well as Lewis acid sites strong enough to form π complexes with toluene and m-xylene as evidenced by IR spectroscopy. 72 The methyl group of these π complexes becomes activated and undergoes hydrogen abstraction by the VO group leading to benzylic species and benzaldehyde.72"
[17] "The relative low activity toward alkane oxydehydrogenation as compared to other vanadia-supported selective oxidation catalysts such as V2O5/TiO2 and (VO)2P2O7 has been attributed to the basic environment generated by the MgO support, which causes a parallel decrease of the Lewis acidity influencing the oxidizing power of the active V ions. 70"
[18] "The activity of these catalysts was also a function of the surface coverage. At very low conversions, formaldehyde selectivity increases linearly with the surface coverage, indicating that isolated V(V) species are responsible for the catalytic effect. In the case of V2O5 supported on SiO2, the selectivity reaches a maximum at 1%, and the decrease in the selectivity at higher coverages was explained as derived from an increase in the Lewis acid strength of the solid.40"

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. In the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), metallic cations act as Lewis acid sites, and surface O= or OH- species serve as basic sites. The substrate undergoes hydrogen abstraction, oxygen insertion, and electron transfer, requiring a spatial organization at the atomic level and the cooperation of distinctive atoms. The activation energy of the hydrogen abstraction step depends on the identity of the cation, with the order being VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation activation energies are higher than those for propene combustion, but the relative rates of these reactions also depend on the adsorption enthalpies for propene and propane. The Lewis acidity of the cations influences the adsorption enthalpies through π bonding with the CC double bond, explaining the observed difference in activation energy between propane oxidative dehydrogenation and propene combustion. The highest propene yields require a solid containing redox sites of adequate potential combined with strong Lewis acid sites and mild basic sites. The catalytic activity of vanadium oxide can be promoted by Lewis acid assistance of the support, as in alkane oxidation. Niobia presence enhances the activity of vanadia for reactions that require a dual nature of redox and acid sites, such as butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the selective oxidation of ammonia by NOx. The activity of Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox supported on δ-alumina, titania, silica, niobia, and zirconia for the direct conversion of propane to acrolein increases as the amount of Lewis acid sites surrounding the redox active VOx species present on the solid increases. Vanadium ions present on vanadium oxide act generally as redox sites, but when supported on zirconia and titania, they act as Lewis acid sites strong enough to form π complexes with toluene and m-xylene, leading to hydrogen abstraction and the formation of benzylic species and benzaldehyde. The relative low activity toward alkane oxydehydrogenation as compared to other vanadia-supported selective oxidation catalysts has been attributed to the basic environment generated by the MgO support, which causes a parallel decrease of the Lewis acidity, influencing the oxidizing power of the active V ions. The activity of these catalysts is also a function of the surface coverage, with formaldehyde selectivity increasing linearly with the surface coverage at very low conversions, indicating that isolated V(V) species are responsible for the catalytic effect. In the case of V2O5 supported on SiO2, the selectivity reaches a maximum at 1%, and the decrease in the selectivity at higher coverages is explained by an increase in the Lewis acid strength of the solid.

2. The interplay between various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems, plays a crucial role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH). The challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion are influenced by factors such as the nature of the active sites, the reaction mechanism, and the stability of the catalyst. The proposed reaction mechanisms, such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction, collectively influence the process efficiency. Site isolation plays a significant role in addressing selectivity issues by preventing the formation of undesired products through secondary reactions. The presence of Lewis acid sites and basic sites in the catalysts facilitates the activation of the substrate and the oxidant, promoting the desired reaction pathways. The stability of the catalyst is also a critical factor, as it affects the longevity of the process and the overall efficiency. The use of supported systems can enhance the stability and selectivity of the catalyst by providing a suitable environment for the active sites and preventing their aggregation or deactivation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 在烷烃氧化脱氢（ODH）过程中，金属阳离子充当路易斯酸位点，而表面O=或OH-物种则作为碱性位点。底物经历了氢抽提、氧插入和电子转移，这需要在原子水平上的空间组织和不同原子之间的合作。氢抽提步骤的活化能取决于阳离子的性质，其顺序为VOx/ZrO2 < MoOx/ZrO2 < WOx/ZrO2。丙烷氧化脱氢的活化能高于丙烯燃烧，但这些反应的相对速率也取决于丙烯和丙烷的吸附焓。路易斯酸性阳离子通过π键与CC双键结合，影响吸附焓，解释了丙烷氧化脱氢和丙烯燃烧之间观察到的活化能差异。最高丙烯产率需要固体含有适当电位的氧化还原位点，结合强路易斯酸位点和温和的碱性位点。五氧化二钒的催化活性可以通过支撑材料的路易斯酸辅助来促进，例如在烷烃氧化中。铌酸盐的存在显著增强了钒酸盐在需要氧化还原和酸性位点双重性质的催化反应中的活性，如丁烷氧化为马来酸酐和NOx选择性氧化氨。Ag0.01Bi0.85V0.54Mo0.45Ox在δ-氧化铝、二氧化钛、二氧化硅、铌酸盐和氧化锆上的活性，用于直接将丙烷转化为丙烯醛，随着支撑在固体上的氧化还原活性VOx物种周围的路易斯酸位点数量的增加而增加。当支撑在氧化锆和二氧化钛上时，五氧化二钒离子通常作为氧化还原位点，但它们也作为强路易斯酸位点，足以与甲苯和m-二甲苯形成π复合物，导致氢抽提和苯基物种和苯甲醛的形成。与V2O5/TiO2和(VO)2P2O7等其他钒酸盐支撑的氧化选择性催化剂相比，烷烃氧化脱氢的相对较低活性归因于MgO支撑产生的碱性环境，这导致路易斯酸性的平行降低，影响活性V离子的氧化能力。这些催化剂的活性也是表面覆盖度的函数，在非常低的转化率下，甲醛选择性随着表面覆盖度的线性增加，表明孤立的V(V)物种负责催化效应。在SiO2上支撑的V2O5的情况下，选择性在1%时达到最大，而在更高覆盖度下选择性的降低被解释为源自固体路易斯酸强度的增加。

2. 各种催化剂之间的相互作用，包括块状金属氧化物和支撑系统，在烷烃氧化脱氢（ODH）中起着至关重要的作用。实现高选择性和转化率的挑战受到活性位点性质、反应机理和催化剂稳定性等因素的影响。提出的反应机理，如C-H键活化、M-烷基中间体和2H-抽提，共同影响过程效率。位点隔离在解决选择性问题中起着重要作用，通过防止通过二次反应形成不需要的产品。催化剂中路易斯酸位点和碱性位点的存在促进了底物和氧化剂的活化，促进了所需的反应途径。催化剂的稳定性也是一个关键因素，因为它影响过程的持久性和整体效率。支撑系统的使用可以通过为活性位点提供合适的环境并防止其聚集或失活来增强催化剂的稳定性和选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
