<quotes>

[1] "A similar reaction cycle is claimed by ARCO to occur with tetra-alkylammonium salts of the anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, giving good yields of propylene epoxide.570"
[2] "Transition metal substituted molecular sieves have also been used as selective catalysts for oxidizing saturated hydrocarbons using molecular oxygen. For instance, V-containing silicalite showed activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. In this sense, Zatorski et al.572 have carried out selectively the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene with O2 and N2O. The success of vanadium silicalite for the above reaction is attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation together with the absence of Brnsted acidity and a limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to the presence of stable VOSi bonds containing nonelectrophilic bridging oxygen ions, and a stable coordination of vanadium.573"
[3] "Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could, in principle, in the presence of oxygen and saturated hydrocarbons favor the production of the free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process."
[4] "Indeed, chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, in the presence of small amounts of alkyl hydroperoxide initiator. Tetralin, indone, and ethylbenzene have also been converted to the corresponding ketones.452,454,574 Unfortunately, the system is not fully heterogeneous due to some leaching of Cr3+ occurring during the reaction."
[5] "Recently, MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent.577,578 In this case, the influence of the level of conversion on leaching should also be carefully addressed."
[6] "A novel concept and very promising system to effect the oxidation of alkanes and unsaturated hydrocarbons consists of taking advantage of the electrostatic fields experienced inside the zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, to stablize the collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons. 579-585 The hydrocarbon oxygen complexes undergoes a considerable stabilization (up to 8 kcal/mol). This stabilization can be experimentally demonstrated by measuring in the UVVis spectrum the λmax of the corresponding CT complexes and observing a gradual shift toward longer wavelengths as the Coulombic fields inside the zeolite cages increase."
[7] "By selective excitation of these CT complexes with visible red light, the corresponding hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity. The course of the irradiation can be followed and the reaction intermediates characterized by in situ FT-IR spectroscopy of zeolite wafers in which the hydrocarbon and oxygen have been coadsorbed from the vapor phase. In this way, cyclohexane can be oxidized by oxygen to cyclohexane hydroperoxide with an almost complete selectivity at very high cyclohexane conversion."
[8] "The proposed reaction mechanism is indicated in Scheme 46 and is thought to involve and initial electron transfer within the alkaneoxygen complex followed by hydrogen abstraction with the formation in a cage of a geminate carbon centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical. This radical pair readily recombines to the alkylhydroperoxide."
[9] "In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) has been studied using various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. ARCO claimed a similar reaction cycle with tetra-alkylammonium salts of anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, achieving good yields of propylene epoxide.
2.Vanadium silicalite has shown activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes, attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation, the absence of Brnsted acidity, and a limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to the presence of stable VOSi bonds containing nonelectrophilic bridging oxygen ions, and a stable coordination of vanadium.
3.Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could, in principle, favor the production of free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process in the presence of oxygen and saturated hydrocarbons.
4.Chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, but the system is not fully heterogeneous due to some leaching of Cr3+ occurring during the reaction.
5.MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent, but the influence of the level of conversion on leaching should be carefully addressed.
6.A novel concept and very promising system to effect the oxidation of alkanes and unsaturated hydrocarbons consists of taking advantage of the electrostatic fields experienced inside the zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, to stabilize the collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons.
7.By selective excitation of these CT complexes with visible red light, the corresponding hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity. Cyclohexane can be oxidized by oxygen to cyclohexane hydroperoxide with an almost complete selectivity at very high cyclohexane conversion.
8.The proposed reaction mechanism involves an initial electron transfer within the alkaneoxygen complex followed by hydrogen abstraction with the formation in a cage of a geminate carbon centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical. This radical pair readily recombines to the alkylhydroperoxide.
9.In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.氧化脱氢烷烃(ODH)使用各种催化剂进行了研究，包括块状金属氧化物和支撑系统。ARCO声称在甲醇水溶液中使用四烷基季铵盐的蒽醌-2,6-二磺酸盐发生了类似的反应循环，实现了丙烯环氧化物的良好产率。
2.含钒硅酸盐在较低烷烃的氧化脱氢中表现出活性和选择性，归因于钒(V)作为唯一的氧激活位点，不存在Brnsted酸性，以及由于存在稳定的VOSi键，含非电子亲性桥接氧离子，以及钒的稳定配位，对氧插入或烯烃在烯丙位的活化具有有限的倾向。
3.过渡金属如Cr3+、CoIII、MnIII、FeIII在分子筛AlPO型结构中替代，原则上在氧气和饱和烃存在下，可能有利于产生参与氧官能化过程的自由基。
4.铬取代的磷铝酸盐-5(CrAPO-5)在液相中对环己烷的自氧化为环己酮具有活性，但在反应过程中Cr3+发生了一些浸出，导致系统不完全异质。
5.据报道，MnAPO-18和MnAPO-36是当使用底物作为溶剂时，环己烷自氧化的稳定催化剂。在这种情况下，应仔细考虑转化水平对浸出的影响。
6.一种新颖的概念和非常有前景的系统是利用分子筛超笼内，特别是与碱土金属阳离子交换的分子筛中经历的静电场，来稳定分子氧与烷烃、烯烃和芳烃之间的碰撞电荷转移复合物。579-585烷氧复合物经历了相当大的稳定化(高达8 kcal/mol)。这种稳定化可以通过测量UVVis光谱中相应CT复合物的λmax并观察到随着分子筛笼内库仑场的增加，向更长波长的逐渐偏移来实验验证。
7.通过选择性激发这些CT复合物的可见红光，几乎完全选择性地形成相应的过氧化物。可以通过原位FT-IR光谱对分子筛晶片中从气相共吸附的烃和氧进行跟踪和表征，从而跟踪照射过程和表征反应中间体。通过这种方式，环己烷可以被氧气氧化为环己烷过氧化物，几乎完全选择性，环己烷转化率非常高。
8.提出的反应机理如方案46所示，被认为涉及烷氧复合物内的初始电子转移，随后是氢原子抽提，在笼中形成一个孪生碳中心自由基和一个过氧自由基。这种自由基对迅速重组为烷基过氧化物。
9.在这种选择性氧化烃类中，分子筛仅起被动作用，仅定义一个高度极性的反应腔，其中CT复合物变得稳定。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
