<quotes>

[1] "A similar reaction cycle is claimed by ARCO to occur with tetra-alkylammonium salts of the anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, giving good yields of propylene epoxide.570 Following the methodology of generating H2O2 in situ, the most direct way to make this would be using O2 and H2. This is done by carrying out the propylene epoxidation on a bifunctional catalyst formed by Pd and Pt on TS-1. The noble metal catalyzes the formation of H2O2 from H2 and O2, while the TS-1 will react the formed H2O2 with propylene to give the epoxide."
[2] "An optimized catalyst gives propylene oxide with selectivities up to 85% at conversions between 15 and 20%.75 Two drawbacks of this process is the need to operate under conditions close to the explosion limit, and the formation of propane coming from hydrogenation of propylene."
[3] "It is interesting to point out that when a catalyst formed by gold dispersed on TS-1 is used to epoxidize propylene with H2O2 formed in situ by reacting H2 and O2 at low temperature, no propane is formed and the selectivity to epoxide is high (99%), but conversion is low (<2%).571 There is no doubt that this system deserves further work trying to find the reasons for the low conversion obtained."
[4] "Transition metal substituted molecular sieves have also been used as selective catalysts for oxidizing saturated hydrocarbons using molecular oxygen. For instance, V-containing silicalite showed activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
[5] "The success of vanadium silicalite for the above reaction is attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation together with the absence of Brnsted acidity and a limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to the presence of stable VOSi bonds containing nonelectrophilic bridging oxygen ions, and a stable coordination of vanadium."
[6] "Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could, in principle, in the presence of oxygen and saturated hydrocarbons favor the production of the free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process."
[7] "Indeed, chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, in the presence of small amounts of alkyl hydroperoxide initiator."
[8] "Unfortunately, the system is not fully heterogeneous due to some leaching of Cr3+ occurring during the reaction."
[9] "Similarly, the use of acetic acid solvent during the aerobic oxidation of cyclohexane to adipic acid using CoAPO-5 results in leaching of cobalt, being the leached cobalt responsible for the catalytic activity."
[10] "When conversion level increases the acids formed in consecutive reactions enhances considerably Co leaching."
[11] "Recently, MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent."
[12] "In this case, the influence of the level of conversion on leaching should also be carefully addressed."
[13] "A novel concept and very promising system to effect the oxidation of alkanes and unsaturated hydrocarbons consists of taking advantage of the electrostatic fields experienced inside the zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, to stablize the collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons."
[14] "The hydrocarbon oxygen complexes undergoes a considerable stabilization (up to 8 kcal/mol)."
[15] "By selective excitation of these CT complexes with visible red light, the corresponding hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity."
[16] "In this way, cyclohexane can be oxidized by oxygen to cyclohexane hydroperoxide with an almost complete selectivity at very high cyclohexane conversion."
[17] "The proposed reaction mechanism is indicated in Scheme 46 and is thought to involve and initial electron transfer within the alkaneoxygen complex followed by hydrogen abstraction with the formation in a cage of a geminate carbon centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical."
[18] "This radical pair readily recombines to the alkylhydroperoxide."
[19] "In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized."
[20] "A heterogeneous cobalt catalyst based on an immobilized trimeric cobalt complex on MCM-41 has been claimed for the conversion of cyclohexane to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone in an aerobic system using the substrate as solvent."
[21] "Again leaching may be an issue when adipic acid will be formed at higher conversion levels."
[22] "A recent work has showed that Co and MnAlPO-18 is a regioselective oxidation catalyst for n-alkanes."
[23] "Because of the end-on approach of the n-paraffin in ALPO-18, owing to the pore dimensions and topology of this molecular sieve, only the C1 and C2 positions are preferentially oxidized."
[24] "When other structures with larger pore dimensions (AlPO-36 and AlPO-5) are used, oxyfunctionalization is predominant at the C3 and C4 positions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. ARCO claims that a similar reaction cycle occurs with tetra-alkylammonium salts of anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, yielding good propylene epoxide. The most direct way to achieve this is by using O2 and H2 on a bifunctional catalyst formed by Pd and Pt on TS-1. The noble metal catalyzes the formation of H2O2 from H2 and O2, while TS-1 reacts the formed H2O2 with propylene to produce the epoxide.
2. An optimized catalyst gives propylene oxide with selectivities up to 85% at conversions between 15 and 20%. However, two drawbacks of this process are the need to operate under conditions close to the explosion limit and the formation of propane from the hydrogenation of propylene.
3. When a catalyst formed by gold dispersed on TS-1 is used to epoxidize propylene with H2O2 formed in situ by reacting H2 and O2 at low temperature, no propane is formed, and the selectivity to epoxide is high (99%), but conversion is low (<2%). This system deserves further work to find the reasons for the low conversion.
4. Transition metal substituted molecular sieves have been used as selective catalysts for oxidizing saturated hydrocarbons using molecular oxygen. For instance, V-containing silicalite showed activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.
5. The success of vanadium silicalite for the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes is attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation, the absence of Brnsted acidity, and a limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to the presence of stable VOSi bonds containing nonelectrophilic bridging oxygen ions and a stable coordination of vanadium.
6. Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could, in principle, favor the production of free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process in the presence of oxygen and saturated hydrocarbons.
7. Chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, in the presence of small amounts of alkyl hydroperoxide initiator.
8. Unfortunately, the system is not fully heterogeneous due to some leaching of Cr3+ occurring during the reaction.
9. Similarly, the use of acetic acid solvent during the aerobic oxidation of cyclohexane to adipic acid using CoAPO-5 results in leaching of cobalt, which is responsible for the catalytic activity.
10. When conversion level increases, the acids formed in consecutive reactions enhance considerably Co leaching.
11. Recently, MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent.
12. In this case, the influence of the level of conversion on leaching should also be carefully addressed.
13. A novel concept and very promising system to effect the oxidation of alkanes and unsaturated hydrocarbons consists of taking advantage of the electrostatic fields experienced inside the zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, to stabilize the collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons.
14. The hydrocarbon oxygen complexes undergo considerable stabilization (up to 8 kcal/mol).
15. By selective excitation of these CT complexes with visible red light, the corresponding hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity.
16. In this way, cyclohexane can be oxidized by oxygen to cyclohexane hydroperoxide with almost complete selectivity at very high cyclohexane conversion.
17. The proposed reaction mechanism involves an initial electron transfer within the alkane-oxygen complex followed by hydrogen abstraction with the formation in a cage of a geminate carbon-centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical.
18. This radical pair readily recombines to the alkylhydroperoxide.
19. In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized.
20. A heterogeneous cobalt catalyst based on an immobilized trimeric cobalt complex on MCM-41 has been claimed for the conversion of cyclohexane to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone in an aerobic system using the substrate as solvent.
21. Again, leaching may be an issue when adipic acid will be formed at higher conversion levels.
22. A recent work has shown that Co and MnAlPO-18 is a regioselective oxidation catalyst for n-alkanes.
23. Because of the end-on approach of the n-paraffin in ALPO-18, owing to the pore dimensions and topology of this molecular sieve, only the C1 and C2 positions are preferentially oxidized.
24. When other structures with larger pore dimensions (AlPO-36 and AlPO-5) are used, oxyfunctionalization is predominant at the C3 and C4 positions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. ARCO声称,类似的反应循环发生在四烷基季铵盐的蒽醌-2,6-二磺酸在甲醇水溶液中,产生良好的丙烯环氧化物。最直接的方法是使用O2和H2在由Pd和Pt组成的双功能催化剂TS-1上。贵金属催化H2和O2形成H2O2,而TS-1将形成的H2O2与丙烯反应生成环氧化物。
2. 优化的催化剂在15%到20%的转化率下,丙烯氧化物的选择性高达85%。然而,该过程的两个缺点是在接近爆炸极限的条件下操作,以及丙烯氢化生成丙烷。
3. 当使用分散在TS-1上的金作为催化剂,在低温下通过H2和O2原位形成H2O2来环氧化丙烯时,不会形成丙烷,并且环氧化物的选择性很高(99%),但转化率很低(<2%)。这个系统值得进一步研究,以找出低转化率的原因。
4. 过渡金属取代的分子筛已被用作选择性催化剂,用于使用分子氧氧化饱和烃。例如,V-含硅酸盐在氧化较低烷烃的脱氢方面表现出活性和选择性。
5. 钒硅酸盐在上述反应中的成功归因于V(五价)作为唯一的氧激活位点,不存在Brnsted酸性,以及由于存在稳定的VOSi键,含有非电子亲性桥接氧离子,以及钒的稳定配位,对氧插入或烯烃在烯丙位的活化具有有限的倾向。
6. 原则上,在存在氧气和饱和烃的情况下,过渡金属如Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII取代的分子筛AlPO型结构可能有利于产生参与氧官能化过程的自由基。
7. 铬取代的铝磷酸盐-5(CrAPO-5)在存在少量烷基过氧化物引发剂的情况下,对环己烷的液相自氧化为环己酮具有活性。
8. 不幸的是,由于反应过程中Cr3+的流失,该系统不是完全异相的。
9. 同样,在使用CoAPO-5进行环己烷的需氧氧化为己二酸时,使用乙酸溶剂会导致钴的流失,流失的钴对催化活性负责。
10. 当转化水平提高时,连续反应中形成的酸会显著增强Co的流失。
11. 最近,据报道MnAPO-18和MnAPO-36是稳定的催化剂,当使用底物作为溶剂时,用于环己烷的自氧化。
12. 在这种情况下,应仔细研究转化水平对流失的影响。
13. 一种新颖的概念和非常有前景的系统是利用分子筛超笼内经历的静电场,特别是与碱土金属离子交换的分子筛,以稳定分子氧与烷烃、烯烃和芳烃之间的碰撞电荷转移复合物。
14. 烃氧复合物经历了相当大的稳定化(高达8 kcal/mol)。
15. 通过用可见红光选择性激发这些CT复合物,几乎完全选择性地形成相应的过氧化氢。
16. 通过这种方式,环己烷可以被氧气氧化为环己烷过氧化氢,在非常高的环己烷转化率下几乎完全选择性。
17. 提出的反应机理涉及烷氧复合物内的初始电子转移,随后是氢原子的提取,在笼中形成一个孪生的碳中心自由基和一个过氧自由基。
18. 这对自由基迅速重组为烷基过氧化物。
19. 在这种选择性氧化烃中,分子筛仅起被动作用,仅定义一个高度极性的反应腔,其中CT复合物变得稳定。
20. 已经声称基于MCM-41上固定三聚钴复合物的异相钴催化剂用于在需氧系统中使用底物作为溶剂将环己烷转化为环己醇和环己酮。
21. 再次,当在较高转化率下形成己二酸时,流失可能是一个问题。
22. 最近的一项工作表明,Co和MnAlPO-18是n-烷烃的选择性氧化催化剂。
23. 由于n-石蜡在ALPO-18中的端向接近,由于该分子筛的孔径和拓扑结构,只有C1和C2位置被优先氧化。
24. 当使用具有较大孔径的其他结构(AlPO-36和AlPO-5)时,氧官能化主要发生在C3和C4位置。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
