<quotes>

[1] "A similar reaction cycle is claimed by ARCO to occur with tetra-alkylammonium salts of the anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, giving good yields of propylene epoxide."
[2] "Transition metal substituted molecular sieves have also been used as selective catalysts for oxidizing saturated hydrocarbons using molecular oxygen."
[3] "For instance, V-containing silicalite showed activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
[4] "The success of vanadium silicalite for the above reaction is attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation together with the absence of Brnsted acidity and a limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to the presence of stable VOSi bonds containing nonelectrophilic bridging oxygen ions, and a stable coordination of vanadium."
[5] "Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could, in principle, in the presence of oxygen and saturated hydrocarbons favor the production of the free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process."
[6] "Indeed, chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, in the presence of small amounts of alkyl hydroperoxide initiator."
[7] "Recently, MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent."
[8] "A novel concept and very promising system to effect the oxidation of alkanes and unsaturated hydrocarbons consists of taking advantage of the electrostatic fields experienced inside the zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, to stablize the collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons."
[9] "The hydrocarbon oxygen complexes undergoes a considerable stabilization (up to 8 kcal/mol)."
[10] "This stabilization can be experimentally demonstrated by measuring in the UVVis spectrum the λmax of the corresponding CT complexes and observing a gradual shift toward longer wavelengths as the Coulombic fields inside the zeolite cages increase."
[11] "By selective excitation of these CT complexes with visible red light, the corresponding hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity."
[12] "The proposed reaction mechanism is indicated in Scheme 46 and is thought to involve and initial electron transfer within the alkaneoxygen complex followed by hydrogen abstraction with the formation in a cage of a geminate carbon centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical."
[13] "This radical pair readily recombines to the alkylhydroperoxide."
[14] "In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized."
[15] "A heterogeneous cobalt catalyst based on an immobilized trimeric cobalt complex on MCM-41 has been claimed for the conversion of cyclohexane to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone in an aerobic system using the substrate as solvent."
[16] "An active epoxidation catalyst based on silica and MCM-supported metal complexes with the triazacyclononane ligand system has been prepared."
[17] "Liquid-phase partial oxidation of alkyl aromatic compounds by air at atmospheric pressure has been conducted in the presence of chemically modified mesoporous silica containing chromium ions strongly coordinated to a carboxylate group covalently attached to the silica surface."
[18] "A recent work has showed that Co and MnAlPO-18 is a regioselective oxidation catalyst for n-alkanes."
[19] "Because of the end-on approach of the n-paraffin in ALPO-18, owing to the pore dimensions and topology of this molecular sieve, only the C1 and C2 positions are preferentially oxidized."
[20] "When other structures with larger pore dimensions (AlPO-36 and AlPO-5) are used, oxyfunctionalization is predominant at the C3 and C4 positions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) has been studied using various catalysts, including bulk metal oxides and supported systems. ARCO reported a reaction cycle with tetra-alkylammonium salts of anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, yielding good results for propylene epoxide. Transition metal substituted molecular sieves have also been used as selective catalysts for oxidizing saturated hydrocarbons using molecular oxygen. Vanadium silicalite has shown activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The success of vanadium silicalite is attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation, the absence of Brnsted acidity, and a limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to the presence of stable VOSi bonds containing nonelectrophilic bridging oxygen ions, and a stable coordination of vanadium. Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could, in principle, favor the production of free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process in the presence of oxygen and saturated hydrocarbons. Chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, in the presence of small amounts of alkyl hydroperoxide initiator. Recently, MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent. A novel concept and promising system to effect the oxidation of alkanes and unsaturated hydrocarbons consists of taking advantage of the electrostatic fields experienced inside the zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, to stabilize the collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons. The hydrocarbon oxygen complexes undergo considerable stabilization (up to 8 kcal/mol). This stabilization can be experimentally demonstrated by measuring in the UVVis spectrum the λmax of the corresponding CT complexes and observing a gradual shift toward longer wavelengths as the Coulombic fields inside the zeolite cages increase. By selective excitation of these CT complexes with visible red light, the corresponding hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity. The proposed reaction mechanism is thought to involve an initial electron transfer within the alkaneoxygen complex followed by hydrogen abstraction with the formation in a cage of a geminate carbon centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical. This radical pair readily recombines to the alkylhydroperoxide. In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized. A heterogeneous cobalt catalyst based on an immobilized trimeric cobalt complex on MCM-41 has been claimed for the conversion of cyclohexane to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone in an aerobic system using the substrate as solvent. An active epoxidation catalyst based on silica and MCM-supported metal complexes with the triazacyclononane ligand system has been prepared. Liquid-phase partial oxidation of alkyl aromatic compounds by air at atmospheric pressure has been conducted in the presence of chemically modified mesoporous silica containing chromium ions strongly coordinated to a carboxylate group covalently attached to the silica surface. A recent work has showed that Co and MnAlPO-18 is a regioselective oxidation catalyst for n-alkanes. Because of the end-on approach of the n-paraffin in ALPO-18, owing to the pore dimensions and topology of this molecular sieve, only the C1 and C2 positions are preferentially oxidized. When other structures with larger pore dimensions (AlPO-36 and AlPO-5) are used, oxyfunctionalization is predominant at the C3 and C4 positions. These factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃的氧化脱氢(ODH)已经使用各种催化剂进行了研究,包括块状金属氧化物和支撑系统。ARCO报告了一种反应循环,使用四烷基铵盐的蒽醌-2,6-二磺酸盐在甲醇水溶液中,对丙烯环氧化物产生了良好的结果。过渡金属取代的分子筛也被用作选择性催化剂,用于使用分子氧氧化饱和烃。钒硅酸盐在氧化较低烷烃方面显示出活性和选择性。钒硅酸盐的成功归因于钒(V)作为唯一的氧激活位点的存在,没有Brnsted酸性,并且由于存在稳定的VOSi键,含有非电子亲性桥接氧离子,以及钒的稳定配位,对氧插入或烯烃在烯丙位的激活的倾向有限。原则上,在氧和饱和烃的存在下,过渡金属如Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII取代的分子筛AlPO型结构可能有利于产生参与氧官能化过程的自由基。铬取代的铝磷酸盐-5(CrAPO-5)在少量烷基过氧化物引发剂的存在下,对环己烷的液相自氧化为环己酮具有活性。最近,据报道MnAPO-18和MnAPO-36是当使用底物作为溶剂时环己烷自氧化的稳定催化剂。一种新颖的概念和非常有前景的系统是利用沸石超笼中经历的静电场,特别是与碱土金属阳离子交换的沸石,以稳定分子氧和烷烃、烯烃和芳烃之间的碰撞电荷转移复合物。烃氧复合物经历了相当大的稳定化(高达8 kcal/mol)。这种稳定化可以通过测量相应CT复合物的UVVis光谱的λmax并观察到随着沸石笼内库仑场的增加而向更长波长的逐渐偏移来实验性地证明。通过选择性激发这些CT复合物与可见红光,相应的过氧化氢几乎完全选择性地形成。所提出的反应机制被认为涉及烷氧复合物内的初始电子转移,随后在笼中形成孪生碳中心自由基和过氧自由基。这种自由基对迅速重组为烷基过氧化物。在这种选择性氧化烃中,沸石仅起到被动作用,仅定义一个高度极性的反应腔,其中CT复合物变得稳定。基于MCM-41上固定化的三聚钴复合物的异质钴催化剂已被声称用于使用底物作为溶剂的有氧系统中环己烷转化为环己醇和环己酮。基于含有三氮杂环壬烷配体系统的二氧化硅和MCM支撑金属复合物的活性环氧化催化剂已被制备。在存在化学改性介孔二氧化硅的情况下,在大气压下通过空气进行芳基烷基化合物的液相部分氧化,其中铬离子与共价附着在二氧化硅表面的羧酸盐组分强烈配位。最近的一项工作表明,Co和MnAlPO-18是n-烷烃的选择性氧化催化剂。由于n-石蜡在ALPO-18中的端向接近,由于这种分子筛的孔径和拓扑结构,仅C1和C2位置被优先氧化。当使用具有较大孔径的其他结构(AlPO-36和AlPO-5)时,氧官能化主要发生在C3和C4位置。这些因素共同影响过程效率,并且位点隔离在解决选择性问题中发挥作用。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
