<quotes>

[1] "A similar reaction cycle is claimed by ARCO to occur with tetra-alkylammonium salts of the anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, giving good yields of propylene epoxide.570"
[2] "Transition metal substituted molecular sieves have also been used as selective catalysts for oxidizing saturated hydrocarbons using molecular oxygen. For instance, V-containing silicalite showed activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. In this sense, Zatorski et al.572 have carried out selectively the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene with O2 and N2O. The success of vanadium silicalite for the above reaction is attributed to the presence of vanadium (V) as the sole site of oxygen activation together with the absence of Brnsted acidity and a limited tendency for oxygen insertion or alkene activation at allylic positions due to the presence of stable VOSi bonds containing nonelectrophilic bridging oxygen ions, and a stable coordination of vanadium.573"
[3] "Transition metals such as Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO type structures could, in principle, in the presence of oxygen and saturated hydrocarbons favor the production of the free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process."
[4] "Indeed, chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, in the presence of small amounts of alkyl hydroperoxide initiator. Tetralin, indone, and ethylbenzene have also been converted to the corresponding ketones.452,454,574 Unfortunately, the system is not fully heterogeneous due to some leaching of Cr3+ occurring during the reaction."
[5] "Similarly, the use of acetic acid solvent during the aerobic oxidation of cyclohexane to adipic acid using CoAPO-5 results in leaching of cobalt, being the leached cobalt responsible for the catalytic activity.576"
[6] "When conversion level increases the acids formed in consecutive reactions enhances considerably Co leaching."
[7] "Recently, MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent.577,578 In this case, the influence of the level of conversion on leaching should also be carefully addressed."
[8] "A novel concept and very promising system to effect the oxidation of alkanes and unsaturated hydrocarbons consists of taking advantage of the electrostatic fields experienced inside the zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, to stablize the collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons. 579-585 The hydrocarbon oxygen complexes undergoes a considerable stabilization (up to 8 kcal/mol). This stabilization can be experimentally demonstrated by measuring in the UVVis spectrum the λmax of the corresponding CT complexes and observing a gradual shift toward longer wavelengths as the Coulombic fields inside the zeolite cages increase."
[9] "By selective excitation of these CT complexes with visible red light, the corresponding hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity. The course of the irradiation can be followed and the reaction intermediates characterized by in situ FT-IR spectroscopy of zeolite wafers in which the hydrocarbon and oxygen have been coadsorbed from the vapor phase. In this way, cyclohexane can be oxidized by oxygen to cyclohexane hydroperoxide with an almost complete selectivity at very high cyclohexane conversion."
[10] "The proposed reaction mechanism is indicated in Scheme 46 and is thought to involve and initial electron transfer within the alkaneoxygen complex followed by hydrogen abstraction with the formation in a cage of a geminate carbon centered radical and a hydroperoxyl radical. This radical pair readily recombines to the alkylhydroperoxide."
[11] "In this hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity in which the CT complex becomes stabilized."
[12] "A heterogeneous cobalt catalyst based on an immobilized trimeric cobalt complex on MCM-41 has been claimed for the conversion of cyclohexane to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone in an aerobic system using the substrate as solvent. The turnover numbers are modest (2 mol/site/h). Again leaching may be an issue when adipic acid will be formed at higher conversion levels."
[13] "An active epoxidation catalyst based on silica and MCM-supported metal complexes with the triazacyclononane ligand system has been prepared. 590 One of the N atoms is covalently linked to the silica wall through a glycidyl or chloropropyl linker. The other two N atoms were reacted with propylene oxide. Using the epoxidation of styrene as a test reaction, it was found the selectivities and turnover numbers are higher for MCM-derived materials than for silica.590"
[14] "Liquid-phase partial oxidation of alkyl aromatic compounds by air at atmospheric pressure has been conducted in the presence of chemically modified mesoporous silica containing chromium ions strongly coordinated to a carboxylate group covalently attached to the silica surface. 591 The preparation procedure is indicated in Scheme 47. This solid catalyst can effect the oxidation of neat ethylbenzene in air at reflux temperature with an isolated acetophenone yield of 50%. The catalyst was reused twice without any regeneration or conditioning treatment, by simply decanting the liquid from the reactor and adding fresh substrate. No leaching of the chromium was observed. The same catalyst also performs successfully for p-chlorotoluene and p-xylene.591 It was claimed that the activity of this mesoporous silica-supported chromium catalyst is significantly higher than the commercially supported chromium catalyst."
[15] "A large effort has been done for the development of soluble metal and metal complexes able to oxidize long chain olefins in liquid phase using O2 as a direct oxidant. In general it can be said that the most important limitations for the use of liquid-phase olefin epoxidation using solid catalysts are the low rates and low turnover frequencies, together with the too low selectivity to the desired epoxide owing to the presence of less desired free radical chain reactions. 593"
[16] "We have discussed above about the indirect way of using O2 as an oxidant to generate in situ H2O2 and using Ti-containing molecular sieves, as catalysts. Besides these interesting results, it has been recently described a non-molecular sieve oxidation catalysts formed by gold supported on TiO2. 594,595 This catalyst is able to generate in situ H2O2 and then to oxidize propylene to epoxide when a reactant mixture of propylene, O2, and H2 is used. An important catalyst characteristic is that Au particles must have a hemispherically shape with sizes between 2.0 and 4.0 nm in diameter. The formation of small Au particles on the surface of TiO2 is achieved by depositionprecipitation of Au(OH)3, starting from a basic solution of chloriauric acid at pH = 710. After washing the sample, the catalyst is calcined at 400 C to form the gold particles."
[17] "The catalyst active sites are believed to be TiAu bridged sites that would form the activated molecular oxygen species. Reaction with H2 forms the hydroperoxo species that will be responsible for the epoxidation of propylene.332 This mechanism implies that the active sites for the reaction must exist at the interfacial edge of the hemispherical Au particles and the TiO2 support. This, indeed, would be consistent with the observation that the activity of an Au-supported TiO2 catalyst is higher than that of Au/TS-1 at the same Au weight loadings and crystallite size.571"
[18] "Direct epoxidation of propylene with O2 has been carried out using silver catalysts. If the silver ethylene oxidation catalyst is used directly for the epoxidation of propylene very poor results are obtained. However, activity and selectivity improve when silver powder is slurred with group IIA metal halides, or when silver is combined with K+ and CaCO3. 600-603 Promising catalytic systems based on the above ideas have been described by Gaffney et al. 604-608 These systems use silver catalyst modified by K, Cl, Mo, Re, W as promoters and CaCO3, together with the introduction in the reactor of chlorine (in the form of ethyl chloride, up to 500 ppm) and up to 500 ppm of NO. With this catalytic system, 3.2% conversion levels with 59% selectivity to propylene oxide are achieved, the yield being not high enough for commercial application."
[19] "Silver on alumina modified with Cs or Tl is a selective catalyst for the epoxidation of higher olefins that do not contain reactive allylic hydrogen atoms. 609-616 This catalyst was specially useful in the epoxidation of 1,4-butadiene (Scheme 48). The epoxidation of butadiene results in a selectivity to 1,2-epoxybutene of 95% with conversions close to 13%."
[20] "Besides butadiene, Monnier610 has reported the selective epoxidation of other higher nonallylic olefins as the ones summarized in Table 5 using Csl, CsCl, and RbCl promoted Ag/Al2O3 silver on alumina catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. ARCO claims a similar reaction cycle occurs with tetra-alkylammonium salts of anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonic acid in aqueous methanol, yielding good propylene epoxide yields.
2. Vanadium silicalite has shown activity and selectivity for the oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes, attributed to vanadium(V) as the sole oxygen activation site, absence of Brnsted acidity, and stable VOSi bonds.
3. Transition metals like Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII substituted in molecular sieve AlPO structures could favor the production of free radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process.
4. Chromium substituted aluminophosphate-5 (CrAPO-5) was active for the liquid-phase autoxidation of cyclohexane to cyclohexanone with O2, but the system is not fully heterogeneous due to Cr3+ leaching.
5. Acetic acid solvent during the aerobic oxidation of cyclohexane to adipic acid using CoAPO-5 results in leaching of cobalt, which is responsible for the catalytic activity.
6. When conversion level increases, acids formed in consecutive reactions enhance Co leaching considerably.
7. MnAPO-18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported as stable catalysts for the autoxidation of cyclohexane when using the substrate as solvent, but the influence of conversion level on leaching should be addressed.
8. The electrostatic fields inside zeolite supercages, particularly those ion-exchanged with alkaline-earth cations, can stabilize collisional charge-transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes, alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons.
9. By selectively exciting these CT complexes with visible red light, hydroperoxides are formed with almost complete selectivity.
10. Cyclohexane can be oxidized by oxygen to cyclohexane hydroperoxide with almost complete selectivity at very high cyclohexane conversion.
11. In hydrocarbon selective oxidation, the zeolite plays a passive role, merely defining a highly polar reaction cavity.
12. A heterogeneous cobalt catalyst based on an immobilized trimeric cobalt complex on MCM-41 has been claimed for the conversion of cyclohexane to cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone, but leaching may be an issue at higher conversion levels.
13. An active epoxidation catalyst based on silica and MCM-supported metal complexes with the triazacyclononane ligand system has been prepared, with higher selectivities and turnover numbers for MCM-derived materials than for silica.
14. Chemically modified mesoporous silica containing chromium ions strongly coordinated to a carboxylate group covalently attached to the silica surface can effect the oxidation of neat ethylbenzene in air at reflux temperature with an isolated acetophenone yield of 50%.
15. The most important limitations for liquid-phase olefin epoxidation using solid catalysts are low rates, low turnover frequencies, and low selectivity to the desired epoxide due to free radical chain reactions.
16. A non-molecular sieve oxidation catalyst formed by gold supported on TiO2 can generate in situ H2O2 and oxidize propylene to epoxide when a reactant mixture of propylene, O2, and H2 is used.
17. The catalyst active sites are believed to be TiAu bridged sites that form the activated molecular oxygen species, with the reaction mechanism implying that the active sites must exist at the interfacial edge of the hemispherical Au particles and the TiO2 support.
18. Direct epoxidation of propylene with O2 using silver catalysts modified by K, Cl, Mo, Re, W as promoters and CaCO3, together with the introduction of chlorine and NO, achieves 3.2% conversion levels with 59% selectivity to propylene oxide.
19. Silver on alumina modified with Cs or Tl is a selective catalyst for the epoxidation of higher olefins without reactive allylic hydrogen atoms, with 95% selectivity to 1,2-epoxybutene for butadiene epoxidation.
20. Monnier has reported the selective epoxidation of other higher nonallylic olefins using Csl, CsCl, and RbCl promoted Ag/Al2O3 silver on alumina catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. ARCO声称,在水甲醇中,四烷基季铵盐的蒽醌-2,6-二磺酸盐发生类似的反应循环,产生良好的丙烯环氧化物产量。
2. 含钒硅酸盐在较低烷烃的氧化脱氢中显示出活性和选择性,归因于钒(V)作为唯一的氧激活位点,没有Brnsted酸性,并且存在稳定的VOSi键。
3. 在分子筛AlPO结构中替代的过渡金属如Cr3+, CoIII, MnIII, FeIII,在氧气和饱和烃存在下,可能有利于产生参与氧功能化过程的自由基。
4. 铬取代的磷铝酸盐-5(CrAPO-5)在液相中对环己烷的自氧化为环己酮具有活性,但在反应过程中存在Cr3+的泄漏,系统不是完全异相的。
5. 在使用CoAPO-5的环己烷气相氧化为己二酸时,使用乙酸溶剂会导致钴的泄漏,泄漏的钴对催化活性负责。
6. 当转化水平增加时,连续反应中形成的酸会显著增强Co的泄漏。
7. 最近,据报道MnAPO-18和MnAPO-36是当使用底物作为溶剂时环己烷自氧化的稳定催化剂。在这种情况下,应该仔细解决转化水平对泄漏的影响。
8. 利用沸石超笼内,特别是与碱土金属阳离子离子交换的电场,可以稳定分子氧与烷烃、烯烃和芳香烃之间的碰撞电荷转移复合物。
9. 通过选择性地用可见红光激发这些CT复合物,几乎完全选择性地形成相应的过氧化氢。
10. 通过这种方式,环己烷可以被氧气氧化为环己烷过氧化氢,在非常高的环己烷转化率下几乎完全选择性。
11. 在这种选择性氧化中,沸石仅起被动作用,仅定义一个高度极性的反应腔,其中CT复合物变得稳定。
12. 基于在MCM-41上固定三聚钴复合物的异相钴催化剂已被声称用于在有氧系统中使用底物作为溶剂将环己烷转化为环己醇和环己酮。周转数适中(2 mol/site/h)。当在较高转化率下形成己二酸时,泄漏可能是一个问题。
13. 基于具有三氮杂环壬烷配体系统的硅胶和MCM支持的金属复合物的活性环氧化催化剂已被制备。其中一个N原子通过环氧基或氯丙基连接器共价连接到硅胶壁上。另外两个N原子与丙烯氧化物反应。使用苯乙烯的环氧化作为测试反应,发现MCM衍生材料的MCM的选择性和周转数高于硅胶。
14. 在大气压下,在化学改性介孔二氧化硅的存在下,进行了液相部分氧化芳基烷基化合物的空气氧化。该固体催化剂可以有效地在回流温度下在空气中氧化纯乙苯,得到50%的孤立乙酰苯酮产率。该催化剂在没有任何再生或条件处理的情况下被重复使用两次,只需从反应器中分离液体并添加新鲜底物。没有观察到铬的泄漏。该催化剂还成功用于p-氯甲苯和p-二甲苯。声称这种介孔二氧化硅支持的铬催化剂的活性显著高于商业支持的铬催化剂。
15. 为开发能够在液相中使用O2作为直接氧化剂氧化长链烯烃的可溶金属和金属复合物,已经做了大量工作。一般来说,可以认为使用固体催化剂的液相烯烃环氧化的最重要限制是低速率和低周转频率,以及由于存在不需要的自由基链反应而对所需环氧化物的低选择性。
16. 我们上面讨论了间接使用O2作为氧化剂生成原位H2O2并使用含Ti分子筛作为催化剂的方法。除了这些有趣的结果外,最近还描述了一种非分子筛氧化催化剂,由支持在TiO2上的金组成。该催化剂能够在反应物混合物(丙烯、O2和H2)存在下生成原位H2O2,然后将丙烯氧化为环氧化物。催化剂的一个重要特征是Au颗粒必须具有2.0至4.0 nm直径的半球形。通过在pH = 710的氯金酸碱性溶液中沉淀Au(OH)3,在TiO2表面形成小Au颗粒。洗涤样品后,在400°C下煅烧催化剂以形成金颗粒。
17. 催化剂活性位点被认为是会形成活化分子氧物种的TiAu桥接位点。与H2的反应形成将负责丙烯环氧化的过氧化氢物种。该机制意味着反应的活性位点必须存在于半球形Au颗粒和TiO2支撑的界面边缘。确实,这与观察到Au/TiO2催化剂的活性高于Au/TS-1的活性一致,在相同的Au重量负载和晶粒尺寸下。
18. 使用银催化剂直接对丙烯进行O2的直接环氧化已经进行。如果直接使用银乙烯氧化催化剂进行丙烯的环氧化,则结果非常差。但是,当银粉与IIA族金属卤化物混合,或银与K+和CaCO3结合时,活性和选择性提高。基于上述想法,已经描述了有希望的催化系统。这些系统使用由K, Cl, Mo, Re, W作为促进剂和CaCO3改性的银催化剂,以及在反应器中引入氯(以乙基氯的形式,高达500 ppm)和高达500 ppm的NO。使用这种催化系统,实现了3.2%的转化水平和59%的丙烯氧化物选择性,产量不足以进行商业应用。
19. 用Cs或Tl改性的银/氧化铝是选择性催化剂,用于环氧化不含反应性烯丙基氢原子的较高烯烃。该催化剂特别适用于1,4-丁二烯的环氧化(方案48)。丁二烯的环氧化导致1,2-环氧丁烯的选择性为95%,转化率接近13%。
20. 除了丁二烯外,Monnier610还报道了使用Csl, CsCl和RbCl促进的Ag/Al2O3银/氧化铝催化剂选择性环氧化其他较高非烯丙基烯烃。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
