<quotes>
The chemisorption of hydrogen on alumina was investigated over a wide range of temperatures (-196-45OC). At least five different states of chemisorbed hydrogen on alumina were detected by the temperature-programmed desorption a+ peaks with the peak maxima at about -40: 25, 100, 200, and 320C. These peaks (or types) are referred to as H(I), H(II), H(III), H(IV), and H(V), respectively. Except for H(IV), each type of chemisorption was separately investigated in more detail by measuring either the isotherms or the rates of adsorption and desorption. H(1) is the weakest chemisorption which occurs rapidly and reversibly at -75C and fits the dissociative Langmuir isotherm. At room temperature, H(H) and H(II1) are the major chcmisorption: The former is a reversible chemisorption which is equilibrated in 30 min, while the latter is a slow irreversible chemisorption which continues up to 70 hr at room temperature. H(V), the strongest chemisorption, is too slow to be detected at temperatures below 25OC, but it is the major adsorption at higher temperatures. The total number of active sites for chemisorption was found to be 1.9 X 10 sites/c.m. The experimental results indicate that at least four types of chemisorption, H(1), H(III), H(IV), and H(V), shared all or part of the sites which were the surface defects of alumina. Isotopic exchange of hydrogen and deuterium was also studied in connection with the above results. Two kinds of reactions were carried out: (1) surface-exchange reaction between various types of preadsorbed H, on alumina and D? in the gas phase; and (2) equilibration reaction of gaseous mixtures of H? and DZ but without preadsorption. The results showed that at low temperatures the isotopic-exchange reaction occurred only through hydrogen involve the other tppps of chemisorption.

Alumina was an active catalyst for Hz-D2 equilibration reaction, a number of investigations have been made to clarify the mechanisms of equilibration and ortho-para conversion reactions of hydrogen on alumina (S-5). Recently Yasu-mori and Ohno (6) studied the kinetics of these reactions on y-alumina in detail, and showed that their results were explaincd by the rate equations of Langmuir-Hinshelwood chcmisorbrd as type H(1) and did not 11clwood type. Van Cauwelaert and Hall (7) also made an extensive study of cqui- lib&ion and conversion reactions mrith particular emphasis on active centers of alumina by using CO2 as a poison.

The present study revealed a complex character of the chemisorption of hydrogen on alumina. At least five different types of chemisorbed hydrogen were detected by the temperature-programmed desorption as different peaks which anneared respectively at about -40, 35, 100, 200, and 320C. These peaks (or types) are referred to as H(I), H(II), H(III), H(IV), and H(V), respectively. The experimental results indicated that at least four types of chemisorption, H(I), H(III), H(IV), and H(V), shared all or part of the same sites which were defects of alumina surface. It was found that H(1) was the weakest chemisorption, and it fitted the dissociative Langmuir isotherm, and that this was the only type of chemisorption which was involved in the Hz--D, exchange reaction at low temperatures.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The chemisorption of hydrogen on alumina exhibits a complex character with five distinct states detected at temperatures ranging from -196 to 45°C. These states, named H(I) to H(V), have peak maxima at -40, 25, 100, 200, and 320°C, respectively. H(1) is the weakest chemisorption, fitting the dissociative Langmuir isotherm, and is involved in the hydrogen isotopic exchange reaction at low temperatures. H(III) and H(V) are found to share surface defect sites with other types of chemisorption on the alumina surface.

2. Alumina is an active catalyst for hydrogen isotopic exchange and equilibrium reactions, with mechanisms elucidated through detailed studies by Yasu-mori and Ohno, and Van Cauwelaert and Hall. The kinetics of these reactions are explained by the Langmuir-Hinshelwood rate equation, highlighting the role of active centers on the alumina surface.

3. The study uncovered a total of five chemisorption states on alumina, with H(I), H(III), H(IV), and H(V) sharing surface defect sites. H(1) is the weakest chemisorption, fitting the dissociative Langmuir isotherm, and is the only type involved in the hydrogen isotopic exchange reaction at low temperatures.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 氢在氧化铝上的化学吸附表现出复杂的特性，检测到了五种不同的状态，温度范围从-196到45°C。这些状态分别命名为H(I)至H(V)，峰值最大值分别为-40、25、100、200和320°C。H(1)是最弱的化学吸附，符合解离朗缪尔等温线，并且在低温下参与氢同位素交换反应。H(III)和H(V)与表面缺陷点共享与其他类型化学吸附相同的表面点。

2. 氧化铝是氢同位素交换和平衡反应的活性催化剂，机制通过由Yasu-mori和Ohno以及Van Cauwelaert和Hall进行的详细研究阐明。这些反应的动力学通过朗缪尔-欣谢尔伍德速率方程解释，突出了氧化铝表面活性中心的作用。

3. 研究揭示了氧化铝上五种化学吸附状态，其中H(I)、H(III)、H(IV)和H(V)共享表面缺陷点。H(1)是最弱的化学吸附，符合解离朗缪尔等温线，并且是低温下唯一参与氢同位素交换反应的类型。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
