<quotes>

[1] "The dehydrogenation of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention."
[2] "The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides."
[3] "The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions."
[4] "The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate."
[5] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[6] "Carbon materials have been tested as the support in catalysts employed for various reactions, mostly because of their high surface area and the fact that these materials are both inexpensive and environmentally friendly."
[7] "In addition, silica supported metal sulfides, such as ZnS, FeS, CuS, CoS, MnS, NiS, and MoS, were tested for the dehydrogenation of isobutane, and were found to perform significantly better than their respective oxides."
[8] "Indium is known to share many of the catalytic properties of gallium, a prominent example being the activity that both metals display in NOx reduction."
[9] "Albeit supported iron oxides have been known to be active in ethylbenzene dehydrogenation since 1946, it was not until the 1990s that Geus and co-workers investigated the activity of supported iron oxide in the dehydrogenation of 1-butene to 1,3 butadiene."
[10] "The conversion of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention."
[11] "The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides."
[12] "The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions."
[13] "The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate."
[14] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[15] "Carbon materials have been tested as the support in catalysts employed for various reactions, mostly because of their high surface area and the fact that these materials are both inexpensive and environmentally friendly."
[16] "In addition, silica supported metal sulfides, such as ZnS, FeS, CuS, CoS, MnS, NiS, and MoS, were tested for the dehydrogenation of isobutane, and were found to perform significantly better than their respective oxides."
[17] "Indium is known to share many of the catalytic properties of gallium, a prominent example being the activity that both metals display in NOx reduction."
[18] "Albeit supported iron oxides have been known to be active in ethylbenzene dehydrogenation since 1946, it was not until the 1990s that Geus and co-workers investigated the activity of supported iron oxide in the dehydrogenation of 1-butene to 1,3 butadiene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The dehydrogenation of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention.
2.The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides.
3.The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
4.The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
5.The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years.
6.Carbon materials have been tested as the support in catalysts employed for various reactions, mostly because of their high surface area and the fact that these materials are both inexpensive and environmentally friendly.
7.In addition, silica supported metal sulfides, such as ZnS, FeS, CuS, CoS, MnS, NiS, and MoS, were tested for the dehydrogenation of isobutane, and were found to perform significantly better than their respective oxides.
8.Indium is known to share many of the catalytic properties of gallium, a prominent example being the activity that both metals display in NOx reduction.
9.Albeit supported iron oxides have been known to be active in ethylbenzene dehydrogenation since 1946, it was not until the 1990s that Geus and co-workers investigated the activity of supported iron oxide in the dehydrogenation of 1-butene to 1,3 butadiene.
10.The conversion of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention.
11.The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides.
12.The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
13.The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
14.The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years.
15.Carbon materials have been tested as the support in catalysts employed for various reactions, mostly because of their high surface area and the fact that these materials are both inexpensive and environmentally friendly.
16.In addition, silica supported metal sulfides, such as ZnS, FeS, CuS, CoS, MnS, NiS, and MoS, were tested for the dehydrogenation of isobutane, and were found to perform significantly better than their respective oxides.
17.Indium is known to share many of the catalytic properties of gallium, a prominent example being the activity that both metals display in NOx reduction.
18.Albeit supported iron oxides have been known to be active in ethylbenzene dehydrogenation since 1946, it was not until the 1990s that Geus and co-workers investigated the activity of supported iron oxide in the dehydrogenation of 1-butene to 1,3 butadiene.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在H-ZSM-5沸石上支持的锌对轻烷烃脱氢制芳烃的反应受到了广泛关注。
2.锌钛酸盐在轻烯烃脱氢中的活性也进行了研究，催化剂可以制备成水凝胶或混合氧化物。
3.钼氧化物的化学性质与钒氧化物相似，Mo可以以MoOx单体、聚合物或MoO3晶体的形式存在，这取决于钼的负载量、使用的载体类型和催化剂制备条件。
4.Ga基脱氢催化剂中活性位点的确切性质仍在争论中。
5.在20世纪80年代末，关于丙烷转化为芳烃的研究中首次报道了ZSM-5上支持的镓氧化物的脱氢活性，近年来这一领域引起了新的关注。
6.碳材料已被用作各种反应中催化剂的载体，主要是因为它们具有高比表面积，而且这些材料既便宜又环保。
7.此外，还测试了ZnS、FeS、CuS、CoS、MnS、NiS和MoS等金属硫化物在异丁烷脱氢中的活性，发现它们的性能明显优于相应的氧化物。
8.铟与镓具有许多相似的催化性质，一个突出的例子是这两种金属在NOx还原中的活性。
9.尽管自1946年以来就已知支持的铁氧化物在乙苯脱氢中具有活性，但直到20世纪90年代，Geus和同事才研究了支持的铁氧化物在1-丁烯脱氢为1,3-丁二烯中的活性。
10.在H-ZSM-5沸石上支持的锌对轻烷烃脱氢制芳烃的反应受到了广泛关注。
11.锌钛酸盐在轻烯烃脱氢中的活性也进行了研究，催化剂可以制备成水凝胶或混合氧化物。
12.钼氧化物的化学性质与钒氧化物相似，Mo可以以MoOx单体、聚合物或MoO3晶体的形式存在，这取决于钼的负载量、使用的载体类型和催化剂制备条件。
13.Ga基脱氢催化剂中活性位点的确切性质仍在争论中。
14.在20世纪80年代末，关于丙烷转化为芳烃的研究中首次报道了ZSM-5上支持的镓氧化物的脱氢活性，近年来这一领域引起了新的关注。
15.碳材料已被用作各种反应中催化剂的载体，主要是因为它们具有高比表面积，而且这些材料既便宜又环保。
16.此外，还测试了ZnS、FeS、CuS、CoS、MnS、NiS和MoS等金属硫化物在异丁烷脱氢中的活性，发现它们的性能明显优于相应的氧化物。
17.铟与镓具有许多相似的催化性质，一个突出的例子是这两种金属在NOx还原中的活性。
18.尽管自1946年以来就已知支持的铁氧化物在乙苯脱氢中具有活性，但直到20世纪90年代，Geus和同事才研究了支持的铁氧化物在1-丁烯脱氢为1,3-丁二烯中的活性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
