<quotes>

[1] "The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[2] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[3] "Indeed, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[4] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[5] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[6] "The high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
[7] "The duration of the dehydrogenation step depends on the heat content of the catalyst bed, which decreases rapidly due to the endothermic nature of the reaction."
[8] "The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span."
[9] "The reaction is run at temperatures of approximately 575 C and pressures between 0.2 and 0.5 bar."
[10] "The reaction is run using a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C."
[11] "The entire system is designed to operate continuously to obtain an uninterrupted stream of reaction products."
[12] "The regenerated catalyst is then reintroduced to the first reactor, completing an entire cycle every 510 days."
[13] "The high temperatures required to obtain high olefin yields are also optimal conditions for the formation of coke."
[14] "Consequently, the performance of dehydrogenation catalysts progressively deteriorates with time-on-stream, making it necessary to regenerate the catalysts frequently to preserve sufficient activity."
[15] "The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support."
[16] "The authors propose that the strength of the Ptsupport interaction depends on the strength of the PtOM bond (where M represents the cation in the support), which in turn shows an excellent correlation with the electron density of the oxygen in the support."
[17] "However, Pt can be redispersed on the catalyst by the addition of low amounts of oxygen and chlorine in the feed at temperatures around 500 C, although this process can only occur when the interaction between the support and the PtOx and PtOxCly species formed is such that mobile surface complexes are produced."
[18] "The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support."
[19] "Zn and Mg have also been used to dope the support, because the resulting spinel phase is less acidic and thermally more stable."
[20] "These spinels also curtail the sintering of platinum due to a strong metalsupport interaction."
[21] "The use of more stable polymorphs of alumina, such as θ- or α-alumina, because the latter have considerably less Brnsted acid sites relative to γ-alumina, albeit they also tend to have considerably lower surface areas."
[22] "Indeed, by hydrothermally treating γ-Al2O3 prior to impregnation, the formation of additional hydroxyl groups results in a better Pt dispersion after impregnation and calcination."
[23] "The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated."
[24] "Indeed, the low surface acidity of this oxide and the fact that chromia imparts an enhanced sintering resistance to ZrO2 make the latter a viable substitute for alumina."
[25] "The choice of zirconia over alumina as the catalyst support offers the additional advantage of preventing the formation of CrAl mixed oxides."
[26] "However, Cr2O3/ZrO2 has been observed to deactivate faster than other less active catalysts including Cr2O3/Al2O3, which has been partially imputed to the higher coking rate displayed by Cr2O3/ZrO2."
[27] "Additionally, XPS studies suggest that chromiazirconia catalysts also favor the formation of chromium carbides, which are inactive in dehydrogenation and consequently cause catalyst deactivation."
[28] "The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites."
[29] "Surface area considerations also explain the fact that titania does not constitute a good support, as CrOx easily sinters due to its weak interaction with TiO2."
[30] "CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane."
[31] "Some of these catalysts were found to achieve ethane conversions of 2730% and selectivity toward ethylene of 7175%."
[32] "The method used for introducing Cr into the LDH precursors was found to determine several properties of the resulting mixed oxides, such as surface area, catalytic performance, coking resistance, and thermal stability against sintering."
[33] "Alkali metals, such as K, Rb, and Cs, are known to promote both the activity and the selectivity of chromium-based dehydrogenation catalysts."
[34] "This phenomenon has been attributed to the ability of large alkali cations to stabilize the structure of the support, to reduce surface acidity, and/or to increase the number of active chromium sites."
[35] "Additionally, the presence of alkali metal promoters increases the dispersion of the active phase by assisting the formation under oxidizing conditions of Cr6+ complexes that subsequently give rise to Cr3+ under a reducing atmosphere."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a method for producing propene, which is a key chemical building block used in the production of a wide range of chemicals, including polymers, oxygenates, and chemical intermediates. The profitability of PDH is largely determined by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable for this process. PDH is an on-purpose technique that yields a specific olefin, propene, rather than a mixture of products, and industrial processes are optimized to produce polymer-quality purity olefins. The demand for propene is increasing, leading to the construction of dozens of new PDH installations worldwide. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States is due to the high availability of relatively cheap natural gas liquids. The high-energy demands and low selectivity of traditional processes, combined with dwindling petroleum reserves and rising oil prices, are driving the petrochemical industry to search for more economical feedstocks and efficient conversion technologies.
2.Catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) is an endothermic reaction that requires high temperatures, typically around 575°C, and pressures between 0.2 and 0.5 bar. The Catofin process, which is one of the most widely used PDH processes, employs a chromia-alumina catalyst and operates in a fixed-bed reactor with alternating dehydrogenation, regeneration, and purge steps. The duration of the dehydrogenation step depends on the heat content of the catalyst bed, which decreases rapidly due to the endothermic nature of the reaction. The catalyst remains in use for 2-3 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to maintain a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span. The Oleflex process, another widely used PDH process, uses a PtSn-based catalyst and operates in a fluidized bed reactor with continuous catalyst regeneration. The reaction is run at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705°C. The entire system is designed to operate continuously to obtain an uninterrupted stream of reaction products, and the regenerated catalyst is reintroduced to the first reactor, completing an entire cycle every 5-10 days.
3.Coke formation on Pt-based catalysts impacts the efficiency of the catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) process by causing a progressive loss in activity over time. The high temperatures required to obtain high olefin yields are also optimal conditions for the formation of coke, leading to the progressive deterioration of dehydrogenation catalysts with time-on-stream. To preserve sufficient activity, it is necessary to regenerate the catalysts frequently. Strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, which poison acid sites on the support, suppressing the formation of coke. Zn and Mg can also be used to dope the support, resulting in a less acidic and thermally more stable spinel phase that curtails the sintering of platinum. The use of more stable polymorphs of alumina, such as θ- or α-alumina, can also help prevent coke formation. Hydrothermal treatment of γ-Al2O3 prior to impregnation can result in better Pt dispersion and reduce coke formation. The use of zirconia as an alternative support offers the advantage of preventing the formation of CrAl mixed oxides, but Cr2O3/ZrO2 has been observed to deactivate faster than other less active catalysts, partially due to the higher coking rate. XPS studies suggest that chromiazirconia catalysts favor the formation of chromium carbides, which are inactive in dehydrogenation and cause catalyst deactivation. CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, and the method used for introducing Cr into the LDH precursors determines several properties of the resulting mixed oxides, including surface area, catalytic performance, coking resistance, and thermal stability against sintering.
4.Alkali metals, such as K, Rb, and Cs, are known to promote both the activity and the selectivity of chromium-based dehydrogenation catalysts. This promotion effect is attributed to the ability of large alkali cations to stabilize the structure of the support, reduce surface acidity, and increase the number of active chromium sites. The presence of alkali metal promoters also increases the dispersion of the active phase by assisting the formation of Cr6+ complexes under oxidizing conditions that subsequently give rise to Cr3+ under a reducing atmosphere. However, doping with K+ can result in a dramatic decrease in catalytic activity for some materials, such as chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, gallium-chromium mixed oxides pillared α-zirconium phosphate, and chromia/zirconia. This is believed to be due to potassium forming bonds with oxygen anions, altering their properties and hindering catalysis.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)是一种生产丙烯的方法，丙烯是一种关键的化学中间体，用于生产各种化学品，包括聚合物、氧合物和化学中间体。PDH的盈利能力在很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯之间的价格差异，这使得当前的市场条件对这一过程非常有利。PDH是一种有目的的技术，它产生特定的烯烃，丙烯，而不是混合产品，工业过程被优化以生产聚合物质量纯度的烯烃。对丙烯的需求正在增加，导致全球范围内数十个新的PDH装置的建设。从石油基萘到美国页岩乙烷的蒸汽裂解装置的转变是由于相对便宜的天然气液体的高可用性。传统工艺的高能耗和低选择性，加上石油储量的减少和油价的上涨，正在推动石化行业寻找更经济的原料和更有效的转化技术。
2.催化直接脱氢丙烷(PDH)是一种吸热反应，需要大约575°C的高温和0.2至0.5巴的压力。Catofin工艺是最广泛使用的PDH工艺之一，它使用铬铝催化剂，在固定床反应器中运行，具有交替的脱氢、再生和冲洗步骤。脱氢步骤的持续时间取决于催化剂床的热含量，由于反应的吸热性质，热含量迅速下降。催化剂可使用2-3年，随着时间的推移，活性逐渐下降，通过逐渐提高温度来抵消，以在整个催化剂寿命期间保持恒定的脱氢活性。Oleflex工艺是另一种广泛使用的PDH工艺，它使用PtSn基催化剂，在流化床反应器中运行，具有连续的催化剂再生。反应在1至3巴的压力下进行，温度范围为525至705°C。整个系统被设计为连续运行，以获得连续的反应产物流，再生催化剂被重新引入到第一个反应器，每5-10天完成一个完整的循环。
3.在Pt基催化剂上形成焦炭会影响催化直接脱氢丙烷(PDH)过程的效率，随着时间的推移，活性逐渐下降。为了获得高烯烃产量所需的高温也是焦炭形成的最佳条件，导致脱氢催化剂随着时间的推移而逐渐恶化。为了保持足够的活性，必须频繁地再生催化剂。减少焦炭形成的策略包括添加碱金属，如Li、Na和K，这些金属会毒化支撑上的酸位点，抑制焦炭的形成。Zn和Mg也可以用来掺杂支撑，形成酸性较低、热稳定性较高的尖晶石相，从而抑制铂的烧结。使用更稳定的氧化铝多晶型物，如θ-或α-氧化铝，也可以帮助防止焦炭的形成。在γ-Al2O3浸渍前进行水热处理可以产生更好的Pt分散性，减少焦炭的形成。使用氧化锆作为替代支撑提供了防止形成CrAl混合氧化物的优势，但Cr2O3/ZrO2的失活速度比其他活性较低的催化剂快，部分原因是焦炭率较高。XPS研究表明，铬氧化锆催化剂有利于形成铬碳化物，这些碳化物在脱氢中不活跃，导致催化剂失活。使用层状双氢氧化物(LDH)前体制备的CrMgAl和CrMg混合氧化物已被研究为乙烷非氧化脱氢的催化剂，用于引入Cr的方法决定了所得混合氧化物的几种性质，包括表面积、催化性能、焦炭抗性和抗烧结热稳定性。
4.碱金属，如K、Rb和Cs，已知可以促进铬基脱氢催化剂的活性和选择性。这种促进作用归因于大碱金属阳离子稳定支撑结构、降低表面酸度和增加活性铬位点数量的能力。碱金属促进剂的存在也通过在氧化条件下协助形成Cr6+复合物来增加活性相的分散，这些复合物随后在还原气氛下产生Cr3+。然而，对于某些材料，如铬酸α-锆磷酸盐、镓铬混合氧化物α-锆磷酸盐和铬酸/氧化锆，掺杂K+会导致催化活性的显著下降。这被认为是因为钾与氧阴离子形成键，改变它们的性质，阻碍催化。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
