<quotes>

[1] "The dehydrogenation of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention."
[2] "The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides."
[3] "In a recent publication by Yun et al., an active propane dehydrogenation catalyst was obtained by incorporating Fe ions in the framework of ZSM-5 zeolites."
[4] "The conversion of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention."
[5] "The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides."
[6] "The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate."
[7] "The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions."
[8] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[9] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[10] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[11] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[12] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[13] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[14] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[15] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[16] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[17] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[18] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[19] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."
[20] "The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The dehydrogenation of light alkanes to aromatics on Zn supported on H-ZSM-5 zeolites has received considerable attention. The activity of zinc titanate in the dehydrogenation of light olefins has also been studied, the catalysts being prepared either as hydrogels or as mixed oxides. An active propane dehydrogenation catalyst was obtained by incorporating Fe ions in the framework of ZSM-5 zeolites. The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions. The dehydrogenation activity of gallium oxide supported on ZSM-5, which was first reported in the late 1980s in studies dealing with conversion of propane to aromatics, has been the target of renewed attention in recent years.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在H-ZSM-5沸石上，轻烷烃脱氢制芳烃受到了广泛关注。锌钛酸盐在轻烯烃脱氢中的活性也得到了研究，催化剂可以是水凝胶或混合氧化物的形式。通过在ZSM-5沸石框架中掺入Fe离子，获得了活性丙烷脱氢催化剂。Ga基脱氢催化剂的活性位点的本质仍然存在争议。钼氧化物的化学性质与钒氧化物相似，Mo可以是MoOx单体、聚合物或MoO3晶体，这取决于钼的负载量、所用的载体类型和催化剂制备条件。在20世纪80年代末，关于丙烷转化为芳烃的Ga氧化物在ZSM-5上的脱氢活性首次被报道，近年来，这一领域再次引起了人们的关注。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
