<quotes>

[1] "The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[2] "An additional advantage of dehydrogenation technologies is that dehydrogenation is an on-purpose technique, which yields exclusively a particular olefin instead of a mixture of products."
[3] "Indeed, industrial dehydrogenation processes are currently optimized in such a way that they can produce olefins of polymer-quality purity."
[4] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[5] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[6] "The high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
[7] "The duration of the dehydrogenation step depends on the heat content of the catalyst bed, which decreases rapidly due to the endothermic nature of the reaction."
[8] "The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span."
[9] "The reaction is run using a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705 C."
[10] "The entire system is designed to operate continuously to obtain an uninterrupted stream of reaction products."
[11] "The regenerated catalyst is then reintroduced to the first reactor, completing an entire cycle every 510 days."
[12] "The high temperatures required to obtain high olefin yields are also optimal conditions for the formation of coke."
[13] "Consequently, the performance of dehydrogenation catalysts progressively deteriorates with time-on-stream, making it necessary to regenerate the catalysts frequently to preserve sufficient activity."
[14] "By increasing the temperature, the rates of both CH and CC cleavage reactions are increased, and therefore temperature and pressure must be carefully controlled to achieve an optimal olefin yield."
[15] "An additional problem is that the high temperatures required to obtain high olefin yields are also optimal conditions for the formation of coke."
[16] "Hence, during the selection of the operational conditions in any industrial dehydrogenation process, a compromise must be struck between olefin selectivity and paraffin conversion."
[17] "The first is a top-fired tubular reformer-type reactor, which is externally heated by an oven."
[18] "The gas mixture exiting the first reactor is cooled prior to being introduced into the second so-called oxyreactor, where an oxygensteam mixture is used to selectively combust part of the hydrogen formed, shifting the equilibrium toward higher olefin yields."
[19] "A CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, promoted with an alkali metal, is used."
[20] "The catalyst deactivates over time and is therefore continuously transported to a regenerator connected to the reactor to combust the carbon deposits."
[21] "A fuel gas is routinely added during regeneration as the combustion of the carbon deposits alone does not provide enough heat to achieve these temperatures."
[22] "A mixture of air and steam is used to regenerate the catalyst, and the reactor is purged before and after the regeneration step."
[23] "The reaction is run at 69 bar and at temperatures between 500 and 600 C, steam being added to the feed to reduce paraffin partial pressure and coke formation."
[24] "Because the catalyst has to be stable in the presence of steam, PtSn supported on a (basic) zincaluminate is used with calcium/magnesiumaluminate as a binder."
[25] "Very little coke is deposited on the catalyst surface, and thus dehydrogenation cycles may be as long as 7 h before regeneration becomes necessary."
[26] "The first value is obtained at the start of the cycle, second at the end."
[27] "The balance between these two effects results in an optimum ratio of Pt and Sn, which these calculations suggest is Pt3Sn."
[28] "The left part of the figure shows high energy resolution fluorescence detection X-ray absorption near edge structure (HERFD-XANES) intensity contour maps of the Pt L-edge of catalysts comprising alumina-supported Pt (top) and PtSn (bottom)."
[29] "A shift to higher energies in the XANES spectra during the reduction step reveals that Pt becomes more electronegative, which is attributed to the formation of the PtSn alloy."
[30] "This phenomenon, which is triggered by the partial reduction of the SnO2 present on the support, is reversed during the oxidation step."
[31] "The surface of the alumina is covered with SnO2, which gets reduced when in close proximity to Pt and incorporated into a bimetallic PtSn nanoparticle."
[32] "Surface Pt atoms catalyze the dehydrogenation reaction according to the mechanism shown in the inset."
[33] "The activity of the catalysts is compared using their calculated specific activity, which is defined as the moles of olefin formed per mol of Pt per second at the start of the dehydrogenation reaction."
[34] "The dehydrogenation reaction is insensitive to the structure of the Pt, so all Pt atoms present at the surface of the catalyst nanoparticles can be assumed to participate equally in the dehydrogenation reaction."
[35] "However, it was not possible to calculate turnover frequency (TOF) due to the fact that Pt dispersion values (the ratio between the Pt at the surface versus the interior of the catalyst nanoparticles) were not forthcoming in most of the references included in Table 3."
[36] "Finally, as a proxy for catalyst stability, we have determined the deactivation rate (rd), for which we assume a first-order deactivation mechanism:"
[37] "where Xstart and Xend represent the conversion at the start and the end of an experiment, and t is the duration of the experiment in hours, higher kd values being indicative of rapid deactivation, that is, low stability."
[38] "The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant is known to improve the activity of chromium dehydrogenation catalysts by removing the evolved hydrogen through the reverse water gas shift reaction, which effectively shifts the equilibrium toward product formation."
[39] "At the same time, CO2 is ineffective at oxidizing catalytically active Cr3+ species to catalytically inactive Cr5+ or Cr6+ species."
[40] "To obtain high activity, the operating conditions also need to be considered, because activity is directly proportional to both the reaction temperature and the partial pressure of the alkane."
[41] "Moreover, alkane conversion has been found to be inversely proportional to space velocity, and selectivity has been found to be directly proportional to alkene selectivity."
[42] "The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated."
[43] "Indeed, the low surface acidity of this oxide and the fact that chromia imparts an enhanced sintering resistance to ZrO2 make the latter a viable substitute for alumina."
[44] "De Rossi et al. have reported that catalysts with zirconia as the support are more active in the dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane than the corresponding catalysts supported on silica or alumina."
[45] "This has been attributed to an increase in the amount of surface Cr5+ that is produced during the regeneration of Cr2O3/ZrO2."
[46] "The latter improves activity because Cr5+ forms catalytically active mononuclear Cr3+ under reaction conditions, as has already been mentioned."
[47] "In turn, the high amount of Cr5+ on this catalyst has been attributed to the strong interaction between chromia and the basic support."
[48] "The choice of zirconia over alumina as the catalyst support offers the additional advantage of preventing the formation of CrAl mixed oxides."
[49] "Nevertheless, Cr2O3/ZrO2 has been observed to deactivate faster than other less active catalysts including Cr2O3/Al2O3, which has been partially imputed to the higher coking rate displayed by Cr2O3/ZrO2."
[50] "Additionally, XPS studies suggest that chromiazirconia catalysts also favor the formation of chromium carbides, which are inactive in dehydrogenation and consequently cause catalyst deactivation."
[51] "The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites."
[52] "Surface area considerations also explain the fact that titania does not constitute a good support, as CrOx easily sinters due to its weak interaction with TiO2."
[53] "However, an active and stable propane dehydrogenation catalyst has been obtained by preparing a titania mesoporous material with Cr dopants."
[54] "Alkali metals, such as K, Rb, and Cs, are known to promote both the activity and the selectivity of chromium-based dehydrogenation catalysts."
[55] "This phenomenon has been attributed to the ability of large alkali cations to stabilize the structure of the support, to reduce surface acidity, and/or to increase the number of active chromium sites."
[56] "Additionally, the presence of alkali metal promoters increases the dispersion of the active phase by assisting the formation under oxidizing conditions of Cr6+ complexes that subsequently give rise to Cr3+ under a reducing atmosphere."
[57] "A notable exception to this promotion effect has been found in the doping with K+ of several PDH catalysts, such as chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, galliumchromium mixed oxides pillared α-zirconium phosphate, and chromia/zirconia."
[58] "For these materials, doping with K+ results in a dramatic decrease in catalytic activity."
[59] "According to some authors, this indicates that oxygen ions play an active role in the dissociative adsorption of propane and/or in the desorption of hydrogen."
[60] "Indeed, these workers contend that in these catalysts, potassium forms bonds with oxygen anions, which causes some properties, such as the Lewis acidity and the coordinative unsaturation of the latter, to be altered in a way that hinders catalysis."
[61] "A similar argument has been used to explain the drop in activity observed when doping chromia/zirconia catalysts with sodium, although this effect has not been observed for alumina-based formulations."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a method for producing propene by converting propane into propene and hydrogen. The profitability of this process is largely determined by the price difference between propane and propylene, which currently makes the market conditions very favorable. PDH is an on-purpose technique that yields a specific olefin, propene, instead of a mixture of products. Industrial PDH processes are optimized to produce olefins of polymer-quality purity. The number of PDH installations is expected to increase significantly in the coming years, with dozens of new installations announced worldwide. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States has been driven by the high availability of relatively cheap natural gas liquids. The high-energy demands and low selectivity of traditional processes, combined with dwindling petroleum reserves and rising oil prices, have led the petrochemical industry to search for more economical feedstocks and efficient conversion technologies.
2.The duration of the dehydrogenation step in PDH depends on the heat content of the catalyst bed, which decreases rapidly due to the endothermic nature of the reaction. The catalyst remains in use for 2-3 years, and the progressive loss in activity is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to maintain a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the catalyst's life span. The reaction is run using a PtSn-based catalyst at pressures between 1 and 3 bar and temperatures ranging from 525 to 705°C. The entire system is designed to operate continuously to obtain an uninterrupted stream of reaction products. The regenerated catalyst is reintroduced to the first reactor every 5-10 days, completing an entire cycle. The high temperatures required for high olefin yields are also optimal conditions for the formation of coke, leading to progressive deterioration of the catalyst's performance. Temperature and pressure must be carefully controlled to achieve an optimal olefin yield. The high temperatures required for high olefin yields are also optimal conditions for the formation of coke, which necessitates frequent regeneration of the catalysts to preserve sufficient activity. In any industrial dehydrogenation process, a compromise must be struck between olefin selectivity and paraffin conversion.
3.The first reactor in the PDH process is a top-fired tubular reformer-type reactor, which is externally heated by an oven. The gas mixture exiting the first reactor is cooled before being introduced into the second oxyreactor, where an oxygen-steam mixture is used to selectively combust part of the hydrogen formed, shifting the equilibrium toward higher olefin yields. A CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, promoted with an alkali metal, is used in the fluidized bed dehydrogenation (FBD) process. The catalyst deactivates over time and is continuously transported to a regenerator connected to the reactor to combust the carbon deposits. A fuel gas is routinely added during regeneration as the combustion of the carbon deposits alone does not provide enough heat. A mixture of air and steam is used to regenerate the catalyst in the Linde-BASF PDH process, and the reactor is purged before and after the regeneration step. The STAR process uses a PtSn catalyst supported on zinc aluminate for dehydrogenating light paraffins isothermally at a temperature of 590°C. The reaction feed is diluted with steam, and an externally heated fixed bed reactor is used.
4.The use of CO2 as a mild oxidant improves the activity of chromium dehydrogenation catalysts by removing the evolved hydrogen through the reverse water gas shift reaction, effectively shifting the equilibrium toward product formation. CO2 is ineffective at oxidizing catalytically active Cr3+ species to catalytically inactive Cr5+ or Cr6+ species. To obtain high activity, the operating conditions must be considered, as activity is directly proportional to both the reaction temperature and the partial pressure of the alkane. Alkane conversion is inversely proportional to space velocity, and selectivity is directly proportional to alkene selectivity. The use of zirconia as an alternative support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts is advantageous due to its low surface acidity and the enhanced sintering resistance it imparts to ZrO2. Catalysts with zirconia as the support are more active in the dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane than those supported on silica or alumina. The increased activity is attributed to the higher amount of surface Cr5+ produced during the regeneration of Cr2O3/ZrO2, which forms catalytically active mononuclear Cr3+ under reaction conditions. The strong interaction between chromia and the basic support is responsible for the high amount of Cr5+ on the catalyst. The choice of zirconia over alumina as the catalyst support prevents the formation of CrAl mixed oxides. However, Cr2O3/ZrO2 deactivates faster than other less active catalysts, including Cr2O3/Al2O3, due to its higher coking rate. XPS studies suggest that chromia-zirconia catalysts favor the formation of chromium carbides, which are inactive in dehydrogenation and cause catalyst deactivation. The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relatively high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites. Titania does not constitute a good support due to its weak interaction with CrOx, causing CrOx to easily sinter. However, an active and stable propane dehydrogenation catalyst has been obtained by preparing a titania mesoporous material with Cr dopants.
5.Alkali metals, such as K, Rb, and Cs, promote the activity and selectivity of chromium-based dehydrogenation catalysts by stabilizing the support structure, reducing surface acidity, and increasing the number of active chromium sites. The presence of alkali metal promoters increases the dispersion of the active phase by assisting the formation of Cr6+ complexes under oxidizing conditions, which subsequently give rise to Cr3+ under reducing conditions. However, doping with K+ results in a dramatic decrease in catalytic activity for some PDH catalysts, such as chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate, gallium-chromium mixed oxides pillared α-zirconium phosphate, and chromia/zirconia. This indicates that oxygen ions play an active role in the dissociative adsorption of propane and/or the desorption of hydrogen. Potassium forms bonds with oxygen anions, altering properties such as Lewis acidity and coordinative unsaturation, which hinders catalysis. A similar argument explains the drop in activity observed when doping chromia/zirconia catalysts with sodium, although this effect is not observed for alumina-based formulations.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)是一种通过将丙烷转化为丙烯和氢气来生产丙烯的方法。PDH的盈利能力在很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯之间的价格差异，这使得当前的市场条件非常有利。PDH是一种有目的的技术，它产生特定的烯烃，即丙烯，而不是一系列产品。工业PDH过程被优化以生产聚合物级纯度的烯烃。预计未来几年PDH装置的数量将显著增加，全球有数十个新的PDH装置被宣布。从石油基石脑油到美国页岩基乙烷的转变，用于蒸汽裂解装置，是由相对便宜的天然气液体的高可用性推动的。高能耗和低选择性传统工艺，加上石油储备的减少和油价的上涨，促使石化行业寻找更经济的原料和更有效的转化技术。
2.在PDH中，脱氢步骤的持续时间取决于催化剂床的热含量，由于反应的吸热性质，热含量迅速下降。催化剂可使用2-3年，随着使用时间的增加，活性的逐渐下降通过逐渐提高温度来抵消，以在整个催化剂寿命期间保持恒定的脱氢活性。反应使用PtSn基催化剂，在1-3巴的压力和525-705°C的温度范围内进行。整个系统被设计为连续运行，以获得连续的反应产物流。再生催化剂每5-10天重新引入到第一个反应器，完成整个循环。高烯烃产率所需的高温也是焦炭形成的最佳条件，导致催化剂性能的逐渐恶化。温度和压力必须仔细控制，以实现最佳的烯烃产率。高烯烃产率所需的高温也是焦炭形成的最佳条件，这需要催化剂频繁再生，以保持足够的活性。在任何工业脱氢过程中，必须在烯烃选择性和石蜡转化率之间找到平衡。
3.PDH过程中的第一个反应器是一种顶部点火的管式重整反应器，由外部加热的炉子加热。从第一个反应器出来的气体混合物在引入第二个所谓的氧反应器之前被冷却，其中氧气-蒸汽混合物被用来选择性地燃烧部分形成的氢气，使平衡向更高的烯烃产率转移。在流化床脱氢(FBD)过程中，使用CrOx/Al2O3催化剂，用碱金属促进。催化剂随时间失活，并连续输送到与反应器相连的再生器中，以燃烧碳沉积物。再生过程中常规添加燃料气体，因为仅燃烧碳沉积物不足以提供足够的热量。在Linde-BASF PDH过程中，使用空气和蒸汽的混合物来再生催化剂，反应器在再生前后被净化。STAR过程使用PtSn催化剂，支持在锌铝酸盐上，在590°C的温度下等温脱氢轻石蜡。反应进料被蒸汽稀释，使用外部加热的固定床反应器。
4.二氧化碳作为温和的氧化剂，通过去除产生的氢气，通过逆向水煤气转换反应，有效地将平衡向产物形成方向转移，从而提高了铬脱氢催化剂的活性。同时，CO2无法将催化活性Cr3+物种氧化为催化不活性Cr5+或Cr6+物种。为了获得高活性，必须考虑操作条件，因为活性与反应温度和石蜡分压成正比。石蜡转化率与空间速度成反比，选择性与烯烃选择性成正比。在基于铬的脱氢催化剂中使用氧化锆作为替代载体是由于其低表面酸性和它赋予ZrO2的增强的抗烧结性。与在二氧化硅或氧化铝上支撑的催化剂相比，以氧化锆为载体的催化剂在丙烷和异丁烷的脱氢中更活跃。活性的增加归因于在Cr2O3/ZrO2再生过程中产生的表面Cr5+的量增加，这在反应条件下形成催化活性的单核Cr3+。Cr5+在催化剂上的高量归因于CrOx和碱性载体之间的强相互作用。选择氧化锆而不是氧化铝作为催化剂载体可以防止CrAl混合氧化物的形成。然而，Cr2O3/ZrO2比其他活性较低的催化剂，包括Cr2O3/Al2O3，失活更快，部分归因于Cr2O3/ZrO2的较高焦化率。XPS研究表明，铬氧化锆催化剂有利于铬化物的形成，这些铬化物在脱氢中是不活跃的，导致催化剂失活。在基于铬的脱氢催化剂中使用二氧化硅作为载体需要相对较高的表面积来稳定Cr6+位点。由于CrOx与TiO2的弱相互作用，二氧化钛不构成良好的载体，导致CrOx容易烧结。然而，通过制备含有Cr掺杂剂的多孔二氧化钛材料，已经获得了一种活性和稳定的丙烷脱氢催化剂。
5.碱金属，如K，Rb和Cs，通过稳定载体结构，降低表面酸度和增加活性铬位点的数量，促进铬基脱氢催化剂的活性和选择性。碱金属促进剂的存在通过在氧化条件下协助Cr6+复合物的形成，随后在还原条件下产生Cr3+，增加了活性相的分散度。然而，对于一些PDH催化剂，如铬化物柱状α-磷酸锆，镓-铬混合氧化物柱状α-磷酸锆和铬化物/氧化锆，用K+掺杂导致催化活性的急剧下降。这表明氧离子在丙烷的解离吸附和/或氢气的解吸中起着积极作用。钾与氧阴离子形成键，改变如Lewis酸度和配位不饱和度等性质，从而阻碍催化。类似的论点解释了当用钠掺杂铬化物/氧化锆催化剂时观察到的活性下降，尽管这种效果在氧化铝基配方中没有观察到。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
