I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Statistical Analysis of Past Catalytic Data on Oxidative Methane Coupling for New Insights into the Composition of High-Performance Catalysts Graphical Abstract The more the merrier: This paper discusses the contributions of significant combinations of elements to the mean values of selectivity and yield in the oxidative coupling of methane (OCM) reaction derived from the statistical analysis of about 1870 past catalytic data sets (see figure). The applied methodology allows the identification of the main prerequisites in catalyst compositions for advanced design of high-performance OCM catalysts. Correlation coefficients, decision trees, and analysis of variance are most useful tools.
Abstract A database consisting of 1870 data sets on catalyst compositions and their performances in the oxidative coupling of methane was compiled. For this goal, about 1000 full-text references from the last 30years have been analyzed and about 420 of them, which contained all the necessary information, were selected for the data extraction. The accumulated data were subject to statistical analysis: analysis of variance, correlation analysis, and decision tree. On the basis of the results, 18 catalytic key elements were selected from originally 68 elements. All oxides of the selected elements, which positively affect the selectivity to C2 products, show strong basicity. Analysis of binary and ternary interactions between the selected key elements shows that high-performance catalysts are mainly based on Mg and La oxides. Alkali (Cs, Na) and alkaline-earth (Sr, Ba) metals used as dopants increase the selectivity of the host oxides, whereas dopants such as Mn, W, and the Cl anion have positive effects on the catalyst activity. The maximal C2 selectivities for the proposed catalyst compositions range from 72 to 82%, and the respective C2 yields range from 16 to 26%.
Introduction Catalytic coupling of methane The oxidative coupling of methane (OCM) comprises heterogeneous catalytic and homogeneous noncatalytic processes for converting methane mainly into C2 hydrocarbons [Eqs.(1) and (2)]:((1)) ((2)) Besides these two selective reactions, nonselective oxidation of the hydrocarbons to COx takes place. There is a unanimous opinion that the initial step of the reaction is the formation of methyl radicals, which have been proven to exist.1,2 Once the formation of the radicals is initiated on a catalytic surface, gas-phase reactions are believed to proceed to a large extent. The radicals should recombine selectively to ethane, which is then dehydrogenated to ethylene oxidatively or possibly also thermally. Methoxy species formed on the surface or in the gas phase finally react to carbon dioxide.
In particular, at temperatures from 950 to 1200K typical of the OCM reaction, homogeneous processes mainly control the coupling reaction.3 Hence, at very high temperatures, the yield of hydrocarbons is limited irrespective of the amount of catalytically active sites and hence methyl radicals. Therefore, a high-performance OCM catalyst should not only initiate the formation of CH3 radicals at lower temperatures but also suppress nonselective surface oxidation of methane and hydrocarbon products to carbon dioxide. The required multifunctionality of a catalyst could be the reason why a multitude of oxide solids with different solid-state properties show activity in the OCM reaction. The catalytic materials can be classified into four groups: 1)reducible metal oxides, 2)nonreducible metal oxides, 3)halogen-containing oxide materials, and 4)solid electrolytes.4 Since the pioneering works of Keller and Bhasin,5 Baerns and Hinsen,6 and Ito and Lunsford,7 a huge body of data on OCM catalysts and their performance have been accumulated. The comprehensive literature search in databases provided by CAplus (American Chemical Society), Web of Science (Thomson Reuters), and Science Direct (Elsevier) resulted in more than 2700research articles and reviews on the OCM reaction. In addition, about 140patents on the OCM reaction have been published in the last 30years; this is illustrated in Figure1.
Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Chronological distribution of a) research articles and b)patents related to the OCM reaction (analysis by SciFinder).
About one third of the references available from the literature focus on the intrinsic reactions between reactants and catalyst surfaces over hundreds of different catalytic materials and numerous metal or metal-oxide loadings. Most of the initial experimental work on catalyst screening was done from 1985 to 1995 in laboratory-scale catalytic fixed-bed reactors. A great deal of effort has been devoted to overcome the hurdle of economic constraints of low yield of C2 hydrocarbons, Y(C2), caused by two reasons: first, by catalysts, which partly favor nonselective oxidation steps on the solid surface and subsequently by methoxy species in the gas phase; and second, by the loss of C2 hydrocarbons selectivity S(C2) due to the high concentrations of the gas-phase oxygen needed to achieve high degrees of methane conversion. Eventually, the inability to discover a selective catalyst led to a gradual loss of interest in the OCM reaction. In the mid-1990s, research activity in this area began to decline significantly, as evidenced by the decreasing number of patents filed and peer-reviewed publications. Lately, many new concepts on the reactor and process design have been proposed for suppressing the detrimental effect of high oxygen concentration.4,810 Although an upper bound of Y(C2) of about 25% has been predicted by Ying etal.11 on the basis of assumed fundamental kinetics by changing the rate constants for all reaction steps, at least 24 different catalysts providing Y(C2)25% have been reported; such catalysts with corresponding references are shown in Figure2. Some of these catalysts are close to the target for the industrial application of the OCM process: single-pass conversions of methane of at least 30% and S(C2) of around 80%.
Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Elemental compositions of OCM catalysts with Y(C2)25% reported in the literature. All the catalysts were tested in a fixed-bed reactor in the co-feed mode under atmospheric pressure at temperatures from 943 to 1223K, p(CH4)/p(O2)=1.79.0, and contact times from 0.2 to 5.5s.
Although extensive research has been done on the OCM reaction in the last 30 years, many fundamental aspects, which determine the choice of catalytic components, for example, distribution between surface-to-gas phase reactions, the participation of nonequilibrium sites in the OCM process, as well as the essential features for an optimal catalyst composition remain unknown.
From an economic point of view on catalyst research and development in the OCM, the question about key components of a catalyst that lead to high C2 selectivity has to be first answered before further fundamental work can be targeted on a specific group of catalysts for their further optimization.
Database on the catalytic OCM reaction From many selectivity- and activity-determining factors, the chemical composition of a catalyst is certainly of highest importance. Therefore, for assessing and comparing the relationships between the composition and performance of OCM catalysts, only references with quantitative data on the elemental composition of the catalyst tested in a fixed-bed reactor with fully described reaction conditions have been selected. Quantitative information about reactant partial pressures, operating temperature, total pressure, contact time, as well as degrees of reactant (methane, oxygen) conversion and selectivities of the reaction products have been considered as necessary for the evaluation and comparison of the literature data. For the various data sets, the elements were grouped into the domains of active components, supports, or promoters as defined by the respective authors. As a rule, supports are defined as inert materials on which the catalytic components are deposited. All data are available in the Supporting Information as a pdf and from the authors website in MS Excel format; the assumption had to be made that the published data used for the statistical analysis are reproducible within the frame of experimental accuracy.
Surprisingly, only a relatively small amount of references that deal with catalyst development were usable for the data assessment procedure. According to the applied criteria, 343references, which include research articles, reviews, PhD thesis, scientific reports, conference proceedings, and 78 patents, have been selected for the extraction of data in the OCM database (see Table1). Till January 2011, the OCM database contained 1868 data sets (with collection of data on catalyst composition and its performance presented in a tabular form) on catalytic tests in the OCM reaction, which have been evolved from 421references.
Table 1. Overview of the considered literature on the OCM reaction.
Literature search on OCM[a] Science articles, reviews, PhD theses Patents Total Considered abstracts 2706 136 2842 Selected full texts related to catalyst development 870 94 964 Selected full texts suitable for the data extraction 343 78 421 [a]State for January 2011.
The data collected in the OCM database include data on catalytic materials that comprise a total of 69 different elements that are catalytically active. The sources from which those data were extracted have been presumably, in general, motivated by the search for the best-performing catalyst. Therefore, they are not equally distributed among the 69elements, nor among different values of each of them. Instead, they are biased toward areas in which the authors expected the best catalysts.
For convenience, the references and corresponding data sets are listed chronologically. Different types of literature published within 1year are arranged alphabetically in the following sequence: research articles>conference proceedings>PhD thesis>patents. The data are logged within three sections of input variables, namely, elemental composition of catalysts, preparation techniques, and applied process parameters, and one section with output data on the catalytic performance of the catalytic materials used. The arrangement is illustrated in Figure3.
Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Data logging in the OCM database.
Elemental compositions of catalysts include cations and anions of the active component, promoters, and supports. An active component of a catalyst is considered as host oxide, which may incorporate minor concentrations of various other components designated as dopants. Catalyst compositions are expressed in molar fractions. Oxygen was not included in the elemental composition, because in most cases the exact oxygen stoichiometry is unknown under conditions of the OCM reaction. Similarly, easily decomposing anions, such as hydroxides and nitrates, were considered only when the oxidic form of the catalytic component was likely to be essential at reaction temperatures. When elements such as F, Cl, B, and S are part of the catalyst composition, they are logged into the OCM database as anions of active components. In other cases, they are defined as promoters assisting the catalytic process. As a rule, inert materials, for example, oxides of Al, Si, Ce, and Pr, are used as supports. However, in some cases, metal oxides active for the OCM reaction, for example, oxides of Nd and Sm, were also defined as support materials by some authors.
Five preparation techniques, namely, thermal decomposition, precipitation, impregnation, solgel, and spray pyrolysis, had been applied. Due to the lack of data, the stability of the catalysts and their phases was not considered as the criterion. Inclusion of important catalyst properties, such as ion and electronic conductivity, acidity and/or basicity, electronegativity, crystal and pore sizes, and specific surface area, in the database was also not possible, because of the lack of such information in most references considered. However, this might be done in the future for a limited number of key compounds identified by statistical means.
Against the above background, statistical means have been applied in the present work to a huge body of past experimental data for identifying the key catalytic components and their combinations needed for the high values of S(C2) and Y(C2). For quantifying the effect of various fractions of elements on the catalytic performance, analysis of variance (ANOVA), correlation analysis, and regression tree analysis were applied. It was anticipated that the methodology used in the present work should have an impact on the improvement of OCM catalysts for which a broad basis of preceding work exists. The experimental validation of the results already in progress will be communicated at a later stage.
Results Assessment of performance data on single oxides For identifying the key components that contribute to S(C2) and Y(C2), first the catalytic performances of single unsupported oxides without any promoters were compared from 237 data sets of single-oxide catalysts. For illustration, cations of such unsupported single oxides are presented in Figure4 in the form of a periodic table as a matter of convenience, in which their S(C2) ranges are indicated.
Figure 4 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint S(C2) of various unsupported single oxides tested in the OCM reaction in the co-feed mode.
For 19 single unsupported oxides, at least three sets of data for their performance are available in the OCM database. In this way, the mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) could be derived for each of them, as shown in Figure5.
Figure 5 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) obtained on unsupported single metal oxides tested in the co-feed mode under atmospheric pressure.
The unpromoted oxides of the alkaline-earth metals are active in the OCM reaction. In particular, Sr, Ba, and Ca exhibit selectivities ranging from 50 to 70% and yields from 8 to 9%. Among the lanthanides, La, Sm, Nd, Eu, Gd, and Yb are compounds that lead to selectivities from 50 to 60% and yields from 8 to 11%. Most single transition-metal oxides are generally active only for nonselective oxidation reactions. However, oxides based on Pb, Sb, Bi, Mn, and Y show an average selectivity of 4565% and yields of 29%. Needless to say, the catalytic performance of single-oxide catalysts is influenced by their solid-state properties, which in turn are affected by the synthesis techniques applied for their preparation. It is necessary to note that the performance data shown in Figures4 and 5 have been obtained under quite different reaction conditions: temperatures from 600 to 1200K; ratios of p(CH4)/p(O2) from 0.8 to 16; contact times from 0.2 to 18s; the resulting degree of oxygen conversion amounted usually from 80 to 99%, occasionally being significantly lower. Moreover, the various single oxides were quite different in their numbers, which provide catalytic performance data. Oxides, based on Ba, Ca, La, Mg, and Sm, have been quite extensively studied according to the literature, whereas there are only a few data on the other single metal oxides. Therefore, the mean values of S(C2) and Y(C2) in Figure5 can be used only as a rough indication for well-performing OCM catalysts.
Statistical analysis of performance data of multicomponent catalysts The complete OCM database contains 1868 catalyst-performance data sets composed of 68 different elements: 61cations and 7anions (Cl, F, Br, B, S, C, and P) except oxygen. Thereby, almost all possible combinations of the 68 elements with a multitude of different fractions are available. For comparison, the statistical analysis was performed on the complete 1868 data sets as well as on 317 data sets with the so-called well-performing catalysts, defined as catalysts that exhibit S(C2)50% and Y(C2)15%.
The numbers of catalysts that contain a particular element or, in other words, the frequency of its occurrence within the complete data and within the data on well-performing catalysts is shown in Figure6.
Figure 6 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Frequency of occurrence (F) of elements for 317 well-performing catalysts with S(C2)50% and Y(C2)15% and for all 1868 data sets. For each group, only 10 elements with the highest frequency of occurrence are depicted.
In literature, alkaline-earth metals with an alkali dopant, in particular magnesia doped with lithium, have been most frequently studied. From the 10elements presented in the Figure6, 6elements with the highest frequency of occurrence are alkaline-earth and alkali metals disregarding La, Mn, and Cl. Most probably, a human factor has played a vital role in the design of the experiments. That is to say, scientists might have been induced in using well-performing catalysts by the guidance of prior published data. The frequency of the occurrence of La, Ba, Sr, Cl, Mn, and F within the 317 well-performing catalysts is higher, whereas the frequency of the occurrence of Ca and K is lower as compared with that within the complete set of 1868 data sets.
To identify the highly significant elements of the catalysts, multiway ANOVA (analysis of variance) for main effects was performed. The results are shown in Table2, which lists the achieved significances of the presence of individual elements (without elements of support) for Y(C2) and S(C2) in all data sets and in the well-performing catalysts with S(C2)50% and Y(C2)15%. The quantitative statistical analysis of the nonlinear relationships shows an influence of varying the values of individual fractions of elements on the variance of Y(C2) or S(C2).
Table 2. Significant elements defined by ANOVA of Y(C2) or S(C2) for elements present in all catalysts and in the well-performing catalysts.
ANOVA for all catalysts ANOVA for well-performing catalysts (S(C2)50%, Y(C2)15%) Element Significance level Element Significance level Element Significance level Element Significance level Li
3.36×10-28
Li
4.62×10-43
Cs
7.04×10-3
Yb
4.99×10-8
Na
4.13×10-24
Na
2.18×10-28
Bi
1.06×10-2
Mo
7.68×10-7
Sr
4.01×10-14
La
9.76×10-25
B
1.20×10-2
Ga
3.67×10-6
C
6.99×10-10
Ba
1.40×10-24
Mo
1.69×10-2
Cl
2.13×10-2
Ba
4.20×10-8
Sr
1.31×10-11
Ga
1.84×10-2
Sr
3.22×10-2
Ag
7.92×10-7
Ca
7.14×10-11
Re
2.52×10-2
Mg
3.36×10-2
Ca
1.22×10-6
F
7.40×10-10
W
3.14×10-2
Sm
9.02×10-2
Ti
1.38×10-6
C
1.19×10-9
F
5.97×10-2
Nb
9.74×10-2
Re
1.64×10-6
Sm
7.31×10-9
Mg
7.42×10-2
Pb
4.93×10-6
Nd
4.28×10-8
La
8.30×10-2
P
5.90×10-6
Zn
8.32×10-7
V
1.24×10-5
Mg
8.57×10-7
Sn
4.41×10-5
Mn
2.00×10-7
W
6.04×10-7
Ag
2.07×10-6
K
7.11×10-6
Y
1.42×10-5
Ga
6.46×10-5
The significant elements for the 317 well-performing catalysts with S(C2)50% and Y(C2)  15% differ from the significant elements identified for all 1868 available experimental data sets. It should be underlined that the achieved significance level reflects only the influence of various elements on the variance of S(C2) and Y(C2) without accounting for a positive or negative effect on the catalytic performance. Moreover, the statistics on the significant elements identified for the well-performing catalysts (Yb, Mo, B, Ga, Sm, and Nb) is not very representative, because there are fewer than 5 data sets for each of these components within the 317 data sets.
To establish correlations between the fractions of individual elements and S(C2) and Y(C2), a correlation analysis was performed. Correlations with relatively high positive values of linear and Spearmans correlation coefficients are shown in Figure7. Their maximal value 1 would be achieved if the random variables for fractions of elements and S(C2) and Y(C2) are increasing linear functions (linear correlation) or increasing monotone functions (general correlation) of each other.
Figure 7 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Positive correlations between fractions of individual elements and S(C2) and Y(C2).
According to the analyses, elements with positive values (>0.01) of the linear and Spearmans coefficients of correlation for both S(C2) and Y(C2) are Li, Na, Ca, Mg, Sr, Ba, La, Nd, Re, Cs, Bi, Mo, Yb, Ga, F, and B.
Pb and S have positive correlation with S(C2) but negative correlation with Y(C2), and on the contrary, Ti, W, Mn, Ce, and Sm correlate positively with Y(C2) but negatively with S(C2). The adverse effects may have been caused by the interrelationships between the degree of methane conversion and both S(C2) and Y(C2).
For the elements Al, Co, Sn, Zr, Sb, Nb, Mo, Ag, V, Cu, Cr, Pd, as well as K, Pr, C, and P, the linear and Spearmans correlation coefficients are negative for both Y(C2) and S(C2) (not shown in Figure7). Notably, the coefficients of all the established correlations have values less than 0.5; that is, the relations are to be considered weak.
The results on the main effects as obtained by ANOVA (see Table2) and by the correlation analysis (Figure7) can be summarized as follows:
elements that correlate positively with both Y(C2) and S(C2) are alkali metals (Li, Na, Cs), alkaline-earth metals (Sr, Ba, Mg, Ca), as well as La, some other metals (Bi, Mo, Ga, Nd, Re, Yb), and fluorine;
elements that correlate positively only with Y(C2) are Cl, W, Ti, Mn, Y, and Sm;
elements that correlate negatively with both Y(C2) and S(C2) are Ag, V, K, and C (derived from carbonate species).
For the identification of elements that contribute to the best catalytic performance, the quantitative values of Y(C2) and S(C2) were approximated with a piecewise-constant function as applied in regression tree analyses. The trees for the regression of S(C2) and Y(C2) as a function of the presence of individual elements in the well-performing catalysts are shown in Figure8.
Figure 8 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Regression trees for the dependencies of a)S(C2) in percent and b)Y(C2) in percent (red values) on the presence (non-crossed-out elements) or absence (crossed-out elements) of various elements in the well-performing catalysts. Decoding of the promoter numbers: 1, B; 3, Cl; 4, Cl+B; 5, F; 7, S; support numbers: 1, Al; 2, Al+Si; 3, Ce; 8, Nd; 9, Pr; 10, Si; 12, Sm.
The paths from the root to the leaf describe the conditions for the average values of Y(C2) or S(C2) in the presence (non-crossed-out elements) or absence (crossed-out elements) of an individual element. Data were recursively split by using values that lead to maximally homogeneous branches. Splitting was stopped when a further split would lead to leaves with less than 5% of the considered data. In our case, this leads to the lowest leaf size of 15 data sets.
In summary, the results show that the main groups of catalysts that comprise the well-performing materials are based on alkali and alkaline-earth metals (Li, Na, Mg, Sr, Ba, Ca) as well as on La, W, and F and Cl anions.
The group of well-performing catalysts has an overall mean S(C2)=65% and mean Y(C2)=19.5%. From the obtained rules about the data, it can be stated that the mean value of S(C2) is higher than the mean value S(C2)=65% for the whole group of the catalysts in the presence of the following elements:
mean S(C2)=69% in the presence of Mg or promoters Cl, B, and S;
mean S(C2)=68% in the presence of the combination La*Sr;
mean S(C2)=66% in the presence of W.
The mean value of Y(C2) is higher than the mean value Y(C2)=19.5% for the group of well-performing catalysts in the presence of the following elements:
mean Y(C2)=21.7% in the presence of promoters such as Cl, B, and S;
mean Y(C2)=20.9% in the presence of Al or Si oxide supports;
mean Y(C2)=20.3% in the presence of Li.
In addition, the nature of promoters and supports apparently plays an important role. Therefore, the catalytic key elements selected on the basis of the presented statistical results can be divided into three major groups with respect to their function in a catalyst:
main components: Sr, Ba, Mg, Ca; La, Nd, Sm; Ga, Bi, Mo, W, Mn, and Re;
dopants: Li, Na, Cs;
promoters: F, Cl.
Mn was selected as the catalytic key element potentially suitable for the design of high-performance OCM catalysts because it was identified as a highly significant element with respect to the variance of Y(C2) and it has a positive correlation with Y(C2). In addition, 11 from the 24 reported catalysts with Y(C2)25% are based or include Mn (underlined in Figure2). Re and Ga were also selected as significant elements with positive linear and Spearmans coefficients with both Y(C2) and S(C2). However, it should be mentioned that there are only 3 data sets on Re-containing catalysts and only 1 for a Ga-containing material in the whole OCM database.
Analysis of interactions between catalytic key components Since there are not sufficient data to analyze all possible combinations between 68 elements in the OCM database, interactions between only 18 selected key elements (i.e., Sr, Ba, Mg, Ca; La, Nd, Sm; Ga, Bi, Mo, W, Mn, Re; Li, Na, Cs; F, Cl) were tested by ANOVA. Hereby, interactions (indicated by *) between the selected key elements significant for the variance of Y(C2) and S(C2) were identified within all catalysts and within the well-performing ones; the results are listed in Table3.
Table 3. Significant binary and ternary interactions between the selected key elements identified by using ANOVA on Y(C2) and S(C2) within all catalysts and within the well-performing catalysts.
ANOVA for all catalysts ANOVA for well-performing catalysts with S(C2)50% and Y(C2)15%
S(C2)
Y(C2)
S(C2)
Y(C2)
Interaction Significance level Interaction Significance level Interaction Significance level Interaction Significance level Binary interactions Na*W
3.75×10-6
Mg*Mo
5.28×10-6
Na*La
3.70×10-3
Na*La
5.19×10-3
Na*Mg
1.35×10-3
Mg*Mn
2.70×10-5
Mg*W
3.86×10-3
Li*W
1.65×10-2
Na*Ca
1.79×10-3
Sr*Mo
5.67×10-4
Ca*W
4.32×10-3
Sm*Bi
9.23×10-2
Mg*W
3.86×10-3
Mg*W
7.01×10-4
Ca*Ba
5.85×10-3
Ca*W
4.32×10-3
Mg*Cs
7.68×10-4
Mg*Mn
8.56×10-3
Na*Sr
5.76×10-3
Ba*Cl
1.08×10-2
Mg*Mo
1.15×10-2
Ca*Ba
5.85×10-3
W*Cs
1.28×10-2
Ca*Sr
2.32×10-2
Ba*Cl
6.40×10-3
Ca*Sr
1.85×10-2
Ba*Sr
3.87×10-2
Mg*Mn
8.56×10-3
Mn*Cl
1.86×10-2
Mg*Mo
1.15×10-2
Sr*La
2.16×10-2
Mg*Cl
1.44×10-2
Na*La
2.23×10-2
Ca*Sr
2.32×10-2
Ca*Mn
2.64×10-2
Na*Mn
3.49×10-2
Mg*Sr
2.95×10-2
Ba*Sr
3.87×10-2
Na*Mn
3.33×10-2
Mg*Ba
3.51×10-2
Na*W
3.93×10-2
Na*Ca
4.03×10-2
Ca*Cl
4.67×10-2
Ternary interactions Mg*Ba*Cl
1.02×10-3
Na*Mg*W
3.04×10-3
Na*Ca*Sr
1.07×10-2
Li*Ba*Sr
2.07×10-2
Na*Mg*Mn
3.80×10-2
The identified significant binary and ternary interactions can be classified into the following groups according to the chemical nature of their components [Note: Here * stands for interaction]:a) alkaline-earth * transition metal (Mn, Mo, or W): i.e., Mg*W, Ca*W, Mg*Mn, Ca*Mn, Mg*Mo, Sr*Mo;b) alkali (Na or Cs) * alkaline-earth metal, La, or Mn: i.e., Na*La; Na*Mg, Na*Ca, Na*Sr, Cs*Mg, Na*Mn;c) alkali metal * W: i.e., Na*W, Li*W, Cs*W;d) two alkaline-earth metals: i.e., Ca*Ba, Ca*Sr, Ba*Sr, Mg*Sr, Mg*Ba;e) alkaline-earth metals * Cl or Mn * Cl: i.e., Mg*Cl, Ba*Cl, Mn*Cl, Ca*Cl;f) La*Sr;g) binary combinations of the groups (a) or (d) with dopants such as Na, Li, or Cl: i.e., Mg*Ba*Cl, Na*Mg*W, Na*Ca*Sr, Li*Ba*Sr, Na*Mg*Mn.
To find the best combinations of elements having a potential for the design of a high-performance OCM catalyst, some of the significant combinations listed above were excluded from further consideration because of low performance. Such combinations do not belong to the well-performing catalysts (Ca*W, Ca*Mn, Sr*Mo, Mg*Ba*Cl, Na*Ca*Sr), or they occur in only one well-performing catalyst: (Mg*W, Mg*Mo, Na*Sr, Li*W, Cs*W, Ca*Sr, Na*Mg*W, Li*Ba*Sr).
To elucidate whether the 17 selected significant combinations that occur among more than one well-performing catalysts have a positive or negative effect on the catalytic performance, the mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) were compared in cases of the presence and absence of these combinations. Figure9 shows the mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) calculated among those catalysts that contain the respective combination of elements (full columns) and among those that do not (slashed columns).
Figure 9 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Mean values of a)S(C2) and b)Y(C2) in the presence (full) and absence (slashed) of the significant combinations of the key elements occurring in the well-performing catalysts.
The differences between the mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) in the presence and absence of the 14 combinations that contribute positively to Y(C2) or S(C2) are shown in Figure10.
Figure 10 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Contributions to the mean values of S(C2) (gray) and Y(C2) (black) in the presence of the significant combinations in the well-performing catalysts. The combinations that contribute negatively to both Y(C2) and S(C2) are not shown.
The following results were derived:
combinations that contribute positively to S(C2): Cs*Mg>Mg*Cl=Mg*Ba>Mg*Mn=Na*Mg*Mn>Na*Mg>La*Sr>Na*W;
combinations that contribute positively to Y(C2): Mn*Cl>Ba*Cl>Ba*Sr=Na*La>Na*Mn>Ca*Cl>Na*W;
combinations that contribute negatively to both Y(C2) and S(C2): Mg*Sr, Ca*Ba, Na*Ca.
The mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) presented in Figure8-10 were calculated not accounting for the other elements within the catalysts. The data sets that contain the significant combinations of the elements that contribute positively to Y(C2) or S(C2) were analyzed in more details; the results are summarized in Table4.
Table 4. Compositions and catalytic properties of well-performing catalysts that contain the significant combinations of the key elements that contribute positively to Y(C2) or S(C2).
Interaction Elemental composition [mol%] Additional elements Number[a] Mean S(C2) [%] Mean Y(C2) [%] 1 2 3 Cs*Mg 510 6090 Li, Na, Cl 6
81.2
18.9
Na*Mg 1040 3390 Mn, La, Li, Cs, Cl 14
68.6
18.7
Mg*Cl 3190 525 Li, Na, Cs, Bi 11
75.7
18.6
Na*Mn*Mg 425 229 5792
W
4
72.3
16.7
Na*Mn 517 270 W, Mg, Nb, La, Zr, Cl, S, P, support 21
64.1
21.1
Mn*Cl 3080 1020 Na, Li, K 4
55.7
24.0
Na*W 220 18 Mn, Mg, support 16
65.8
20.1
Na*W*Mn 220 15 24 support 7
66.8
20.4
Na*La 733 2590 Mg, Ba 9
59.0
21.4
Sr*La 150 891 Li, Mg, Zr, F, Ca 26
67.6
17.8
Sr*Ba 2534 3238 Ti, Li, Mg, Na 4
54.8
21.5
Ba*Mg 210 8396 La 4
75.8
15.9
[a]Number of corresponding data sets with S50, Y15.
Some particular catalyst compositions with the highest mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) were selected from the available experimental data based on the identified combinations of elements given in Table5.
Table 5. Selected catalyst compositions based on the significant combinations of the key elements with the highest mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2).
Elemental composition Elemental composition [mol%] Number[b] Mean S(C2) [%] Mean Y(C2) [%] 1 2 3 4 Na*Mg 915 8591 4 79 25 Na*Cs*Mg*Cl 310 310 6090 520 3 82 20 Na*Mn*Mg 425 229 5792 4 72 18 Na*La 775 2593 4 71 22 Sr*La 159 6199 15 73 18 La*Ba*Mg 29 28 8796 4 72 16 Na*Mn*Cl 1733 3467 1733 3 53 26 Na*W*Mn 5053 2427 2627 7 67 20 [a]Number of corresponding data sets with S50, Y15.
Each of these eight catalyst compositions has at least 3 data sets in the OCM database. Ranges of appropriate proportions of elements in these catalysts are shown in Table5. Notably, all these catalysts were tested in the OCM reaction under atmospheric pressure; the degrees of oxygen conversions were approximately 8599%. The applied operating conditions are as follows: temperatures from 973 to 1153K; ratios of p(CH4)/p(O2) from 2 to 8; contact times from 0.1 to 7s.
Except La*Mg*Ba catalysts obtained by thermal decomposition, the other high-performance catalysts were prepared in the majority of the cases by using the impregnation technique.
Despite the differences of the reaction conditions and of the various preparation methods as documented in the database, we believe that the simplification of not accounting for these circumstances may be acceptable as a first approximation.
From the multicomponent catalysts, the main components, with a potential for the design of a high-performance OCM catalyst, were selected. The quantitative values of their proportions were approximated with a piecewise-constant function, as illustrated in Figure11. Molar fractions (x) of the main components with positive effect on the mean value of S(C2) within the well-performing catalysts are given as follows: Figure 11 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Regression trees for the dependencies of a)S(C2) in percent and b)Y(C2) in percent (red values) on molar fractions of the main selected components.
78%<x(Mg)<90%mean S(C2) of 7177%;
x(La)>67%mean S(C2)=75%;
x(Mn)>21%mean S(C2)=67%.
Molar fractions of the main components with positive effect on the mean value of Y(C2):
x(Mn)>22%mean Y(C2)=24.5%;
48%<x(La)<89%mean Y(C2) of 19.219.9%;
76%<x(Mg)<89%mean Y(C2) of 19.621.3%;
x(W)<16%mean Y(C2)=19.8%;
x(Ba)>30%mean Y(C2)=20.1%;
x(Sr)<2.5%mean Y(C2)=20.4%.Discussion Statistical analysis for identifying compositions of high-performance catalysts from a large data pool of catalytic data The purpose of the data analysis was to reveal empirical evidence on the catalytic performance on catalyst composition and interactive properties among the single components of the analyzed variables and relationships between them. In particular, the analyses revealed evidence of the following results:
the presence of certain elements and their combinations significantly increases S(C2) and/or Y(C2) as identified by their variance (ANOVA);
the extent to which the proportions of certain elements correlate with S(C2) or Y(C2), and whether this correlation is positive or negative (correlation analysis);
the combinations of the presence or absence of elements show the highest influence on changes in the average S(C2) or Y(C2); for certain elements, the combinations of their proportions also show such influence (decision trees).
Fundamental features of well-performing catalysts Information from the present data analysis as well as from fundamental studies lead to the following main physicochemical properties of solid materials, which appear to be mostly required for high-performance OCM catalysts:
intrinsic basicity;
p-type semiconductors with a bandgap of 56eV;
oxygenanion conductivity; oxygen vacancies due to metal impurity ions and interstitial sites;
fast exchange rates between atomic oxygen species on the surface and bulk oxygen-anion vacancies;
minimal rates of catalyst reoxidation as compared with those of the OCM reaction;
low sticking coefficients of CH3 radicals on the catalyst surface.3,19,3538 In addition, the importance of structural defects of the catalytic materials for generating selective and nonselective oxygen species has been repeatedly reported for the OCM reaction. For these dependencies, reference is made to our earlier studies.35,39 The present work cannot contribute to this discussion directly, but it is certainly helpful in understanding the main prerequisites, which should be an important feature besides catalyst compositions and which may provide guidelines for an advanced design for high-performance OCM catalysts. For example, the catalytic key compounds that positively affect S(C2) mainly include Mg, La, Sr, and Ba oxides, as well as Li, Na, and Cs dopants, which were identified by the various data analysis methods. All these components are strongly basic; that is, the results confirm the positive effect of the basicity of solid materials on S(C2) in the OCM reaction. An extended statistical analysis of the OCM database with respect to the physical properties of the catalytic solids and their effect on catalyst performance will most probably result in additional understanding of the OCM catalysis.
The data were assessed by the simplification that the methods of catalyst preparation and the resulting solid-phase structures could be neglected (see also above). This approximation may be justified because of a leveling-out effect attributable to the large number of materials considered. This is to say, rather complex relationships between catalyst composition, structural phases, and physicochemical properties have been subjected to a simple statistical analysis.
The empirical evidence of properties and the relationships between the various variables that describe the catalysts is only an intermediate, that is, secondary objective. The ultimate objective would concern the understanding why certain compositions of the catalytic materials lead to high-performance catalysts. To this end, empirical evidence must be combined with existing chemical knowledge and catalytic results that concern particular high-performance catalysts.
Catalyst compositions proposed for the OCM reaction based on the results of data analysis Statistical analysis of past experimental data used in the present work for quantifying the effect of various fractions of the selected key elements on catalytic performance allows one to draw the following conclusions important for the catalyst design:
The significant components with a high extent of correlation (both linear and Spearmans correlation coefficients) with S(C2) are mainly strongly basic alkali metals oxides, alkaline-earth metals, and lanthanide metals (see Figure7).
Within all the available data, Li was identified as the most significant element with a high extent of correlation with both S(C2) and Y(C2) (see Table2 and Figure7). However, the mean S(C2) value in the presence of Li within 317 well-performing catalysts with S(C2)50% and Y(C2)15% was a bit lower than the mean S(C2) value for this group of catalysts (see Figure8a). Notably, most lithium compounds are highly volatile and hence detrimental to the catalyst stability.
Carbonate species being expressed as carbon in the statistical analyses have significant negative influence on both S(C2) and Y(C2).
Eighteen highly significant elements that correlate positively with S(C2) or Y(C2) were selected on the basis of the results of ANOVA and correlation analysis: Sr, Ba, Mg, Ca; La, Nd, Sm; Ga, Bi, Mo, W, Mn, Re; Li, Na, Cs; F, Cl.
The oxides of these elements, which include the halides, were used for the further analysis of their interactions.
The selected alkali metal oxides (Li, Na, Cs) used as dopants with low ionization enthalpies and high electropositivity can work as modifiers for morphology and defect structure of the host oxides and considerably improve their S(C2).39 The effect of Cl or F as gaseous promoters that positively affect the catalyst activity can be explained by chlorine or fluorine generation, which initiates gas-phase reactions. However, it is often not a long-term effect, as the high catalytic performance decreases with time on stream due to the loss of the gaseous promoters. The other 13 catalytic key elements, considered as main components of a host oxide stable under OCM conditions, include the following:a) alkaline-earth metals: Sr, Ba, Mg, Ca;b) lanthanide metals: La, Nd, Sm;c) other metals located in III, V, VI, and VII groups of the periodic table: Ga, Bi, Mo, W, Mn, and Re.
It is well known that various promoters and dopants considerably improve the catalytic performance of single-oxide catalysts.4,3840 For the OCM reaction, structural defects in single-phase catalysts act as active centers; they are due to oxygen vacancies and ions of transitional-metal impurities; for high catalytic performance of multiphase catalysts, particular phases appear to be required.40 In multicomponent catalysts, additive, synergistic, or adverse effects may occur. Usually, the design of high-performance catalysts implies finding compositions with synergistic effects, whereby the combination of individual components often results in catalytic performances not obtainable by any of the components independently.41 Analysis of catalytic performance in the presence of highly significant interactions that occur in more than one well-performing catalyst shows the following:
most combinations that contribute positively to S(C2) are based on Mg oxide;
the presence of Cl and Mn in multicomponent combinations leads to high Y(C2);
the presence of Na*W interactions contributes positively to both high S(C2) and Y(C2);
the other combinations that contribute positively to S(C2) have a negative influence on methane conversion (low activity) and Y(C2), and vice versa (see Figure10). However, these effects cannot be clearly distinguished;
it appears that there is a synergistic effect in La*Sr combinations. The presence of this interaction results in mean S(C2)=68%, whereas the mean S(C2) in the presence of La and Sr alone is lower (see Figure8);
most interactions of Li within the group of well-performing catalysts were identified as less significant for the variance of Y(C2) and S(C2) compared with those of Na (see Table3). Moreover, in catalysts that contain Li-doped MgO, the mean Y(C2) is a bit lower as the mean Y(C2) for all 317 well-performing catalysts (see Figure8b). Hence, the most frequently studied catalytic system does not appear to be a promising material for the OCM according to the results of the data analysis; this finding is in agreement with a recent review on Li-doped MgO catalysts.42 After careful consideration of all elements in the group of well-performing catalysts based on the combinations of elements given in Table4, one can conclude that the majority of the high-performance catalysts can be divided into three main groups:a) Mg oxide doped by alkali metals (Cs, Na), by Mn, and/or promoted by the Cl anion;b) La oxide doped by Na or alkaline-earth metals (Sr, Mg, Ba);c) Mn oxide doped by Na, W, and/or promoted by the Cl anion.
The catalysts based on Mg and La may possess the highest values of S(C2) of 7282% and of Y(C2) in the range of 1626%, whereas Mn-based catalysts from the third group result in high Y(C2) of 2026% and are less selective with S(C2)=5367% but more active, as compared with the catalysts from the first and second groups.
Taking into account additional information about proportions of the main components obtained from the regression tree analysis (see Figure11), the following recommendations for the design of high-performance OCM catalysts can be made: A high-performance OCM catalyst is a multicomponent material that may consist of the following:a) host oxides:- Mg oxide with molar fraction 76<x<89%; or - La oxide with molar fraction 67<x<89%; or - mixtures of La oxide with Mg, Sr, or Ba oxides;b) dopants that positively affect S(C2): Na and/or Cs;c) dopants that positively affect Y(C2): Mn and/or W;d) the Cl anion as a promoter that positively affects Y(C2).Some particular catalyst compositions with the highest mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) were selected from the available experimental data (see Table5), namely: oxides of Na/Mg, NaCsCl/Mg, Na/MnMg, LaBaMg, Na/La, SrLa, NaCl/Mn, and Na/WMn.For preparing catalysts of not only optimal qualitative but also optimal quantitative compositions, two approaches might be used, which will contribute to a further fundamental understanding of the OCM catalysis. The first approach might be based on already existing generic fundamental knowledge using the above compositions for high-performance OCM catalysts. Such knowledge is, however, still limited; it certainly comprises crystalline bulk and surface structure, crystalline disorder, segregation phenomena, and other physicalchemical properties. The optimal performance of such a catalyst will be determined not only by the composition but also by the method of preparation. The second approach based on the empirical knowledge gained in the present study would target on an optimal catalyst composition within the compositional multiparameter space. An evolutionary procedure connected with a high-throughput experimentation should be used in the search for new catalyst compositions; also different catalyst synthesis methods should be considered. By using this procedure, optimal catalyst compositions should be identified.43 On the basis of these results, a few catalysts of optimal compositions will result, which then should be prepared, tested, and extensively characterized for gaining an advanced fundamental understanding of such OCM catalysts. The results of characterization will certainly lead to new insights, which, in turn, might further improve the optimal catalysts.Conclusions The comprehensive statistical analysis applied to data from past OCM experiments allowed one to extract information relevant for the design of potential catalytic materials with improved performances. At the same time, it provided a quantitative assessment of the effect of catalyst composition on catalytic performance, which can contribute to insights into the fundamental features of high-performance catalysts.Metal oxides and their binary and ternary combinations that are important for high-catalyst performance in the OCM reaction were derived. Mn- and Mo-containing catalysts, which have been more recently described in the open literature as well as in patents, were also identified as promising catalysts.It was also confirmed that alkaline-earth oxides as well as rare-earth oxides both doped with alkali metal oxides have a high potential for application. The LiMgO system (see above), favored quite often in the past, was, however, not identified by the statistical analysis as a promising high-performance material; this is in agreement with the conclusion of an extended review on LiMgO catalysts.42 A new strategy is proposed that uses synergetic effects in multicomponent materials based on strongly basic oxides (Mg, La) with dopants having positive effects on both C2 selectivity (Cs, Na, Sr, Ba) and catalyst activity (Mn, W, Cl anion).Catalysts with the compositions identified by using data analysis perform close to the target required for an industrially applied OCM process. Further improvement in the performance of the catalysts based on the selected key components is expected by applying an evolutionary catalyst development approach. From a scientific point of view, the results of the work presented will certainly contribute to further fundamental understanding of the OCM catalysis.Statistical analysis The applied methods of statistical analysis of past experimental data collected are briefly introduced: 1)ANOVA for testing the effect of various input variables (main effects and interactions) on the variance of the dependent variables [Y(C2) and S(C2)]; 2)Correlation coefficients for quantitative estimation of the correlation between fractions of individual components with Y(C2) and S(C2); 3)Regression trees for approximation of the dependent variables [Y(C2) and S(C2)] with a piecewise-constant function; 4) Comparison of mean values of Y(C2) and S(C2) in the presence and absence of various combinations of elements.In general, for all these methods it has to be emphasized that the reproducibility of the results from data analysis depends on the sensitivity of the employed method to changes of data. Hereby, the correlation analysis is least sensitive, that is, most robust. Also, ANOVA is quite robust, provided the tacit assumption of the normality of data distribution is not invalidated by such changes.
ANOVA
ANOVA assumes that each dependent variable follows some basic statistical model, in which the expectation of that variable is viewed as the sum of the effects of individual input variables, called main effects, possibly superimposed by their interactions of various complexity. The amount of available data for each combination of values of input variables determines the complexity of this basic model. The principle of ANOVA consists in testing the hypothesis that a particular main effect or an interaction can be left out from that model without significantly changing the variance of the response variable. If the tested hypothesis is valid, then the unexplained part of the variance, that is, the model error, will be the same for both models. Therefore, the ratio of both errors is computed in the ANOVA method, and if that ratio differs significantly from the value 1, the tested hypothesis is rejected. Provided that the individual errors are normally distributed, the probability can be computed that the error ratio is as high as the value corresponding to the measured data, or even higher. That probability is called achieved significance of the test. The lower it is, the more unlikely it is that the measured data would occur if the simplified model is valid; consequently, the more significant is the effect or the interaction that was left out from the model. For an overview of the method from a catalysis point of view, the reader is referred to Baerns and Holena43 and for a detailed statistical treatment to specialized monographs, in particular Scheff,44 as well as Sahai and Ageel.45 Correlation coefficients The correlation coefficient describes quantitatively the correlation between the random variables A (input variable) and B (output variable) by their covariance. The linear correlation coefficient between the random variables A and B is the covariance of A and B after their normalization to unit variance. The term linear refers to the fact that this coefficient achieves its maximal value, which is the value 1, if and only if A and B are increasing linear functions of each other, and it achieves its minimal value, 1, if and only if A and B are decreasing linear functions of each other.
Spearmans correlation coefficient is a normalized expectation of the difference between the values of the joint distribution H of A and B, and the values of the joint distribution of a two-dimensional random vector with the same marginals F and G but independent components. Hence, it is a normalized expectation of H(A, B)F(A)G(B).
Whereas the above correlation measures can assume any values between 1 and 1, the values of Schweizer and Wolffs measure are always between 0 and 1. That explains why this measure can be viewed as an intensity of correlation. It is obtained from Spearmans correlation coefficient through replacing the difference H(A, B)F(A)G(B) with its absolute value. Hence, it is a normalized expectation of H(A, B)F(A)G(B). A detailed statistical explanation of these as well as several other correlation coefficients can be found in Nelsen.46 Regression trees Regression trees are models that, similarly to ANOVA, deal with continuous response variables. The underlying principle consists in splitting the value set of some input variable into two parts S1 and S2 in such a way that the sum of squared errors (SSEs), based on the available data sample (x1, y1), , (xn, yn), of the means of the response variable y corresponding to S1 and S2 is minimizedover all possible splits (S1, S2) of the value sets of all input variables. If the considered input variable is continuous, then only splits of the form for some value ν are considered.
(3) Both S1 and S2 are then split again in the same way, possibly by using different input variables. Such splits are performed consequently as long as needed, forming a hierarchy of rectangular areas in the space of continuous input variables.
Depending on the number of such consecutive splits, trees of different sizes can be obtained. The most appropriate tree size is usually chosen by using cross-validation: The set of available data on catalytic materials is randomly partitioned into k parts of approximately equal size.
With each possible tree size, k trees are constructed, using for the construction of each of them one k1 part and leaving the remaining kth part to measure the SSEs of predictions by the constructed tree T [Eq.(3)]:((3) ) To assess the appropriateness of each tree size, the SSE values for the test data are averaged over all k trees with that size.
For an overview of regression trees from a catalysis point of view, the reader is again referred to Baerns and Holena.43 For a detailed statistical treatment of the algorithms employed in the performed analyses, see Breiman etal.47 In this context, also the use of a closely related model, that is, classification trees, which has been applied in catalyst development, should be recalled.48,49


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 