<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "The positive effect of hydrogen on the catalyst performance is comparable to the addition of Sn, a promoter element which increases both the propane conversion and propene selectivity."
          [2] "Operando Raman spectroscopy showed that hydrogen altered the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation."
          [3] "By analysing the related intensity, band position and 15 bandwidth of the different Raman features, it was determined that smaller graphite crystallites, which have less defects, are formed when the partial pressure of hydrogen in the feed was increased."
          [4] "The ability of hydrogen to suppress coke formation on Pt-based catalysts is already known and is explained by competitive adsorption on the catalyst surface, effectively reducing the surface coverage of adsorbed carbon species."
          [5] "As the concentration of these species is 70 reduced, they are less likely to polymerize and form coke."
          [6] "The addition of H2 increases catalyst stability,conversion and selectivity on the Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst, with a propane concentration of 75% providing the optimal performance."
          [7] "The reason of the apparent shift in the position of the D Raman band is not understood at this point."
          [8] "The narrowing of these bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure with fewer defects on the catalyst."
          [9] "The addition of H2 to the feed therefore either increases the amount of defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases the size of the graphitic crystallites."
          [10] "The increase in propane dehydrogenation conversion observed with increasing H2 concentration is related to the decreased deposition 55 of coke, which was detected by operando Raman spectroscopy."
          [11] "Initially these sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of the supported Pt nanoparticles may inhibit these sites permanently."
          [12] "Finally,the experiments with propane concentrations of 25 and 50% show a strong increase in selectivity for each consecutive cycle."
          [13] "For these specific 65 experiments, less coke of a more graphitic nature is detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, suggesting a link between the presence of relatively disordered coke deposits and side reactions,such as cracking."
          [14] "It was found that the addition of hydrogen to the feed increases the catalyst performance and decreases the formation of coke deposits, as was revealed by 10 thermogravimetrical analysis."
          [15] "The low initial selectivity can be explained by the fact that highly active sites present on the catalyst induce cracking and hydrogenolysis in the presence of H2."
          [16] "We propose that in the presence of high concentrations of H2,more graphitic coke is formed that mainly covers the catalyst support."
          [17] "In the absence of H2, more disordered coke is formed,that is also present on the supported Pt nanoparticles."
          [18] "H2 assists in keeping the surface of the Pt free of these disordered coke 100 species."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has a positive effect on the catalyst performance, comparable to the addition of Sn, which increases both propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hydrogen alters the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation, leading to the formation of smaller graphite crystallites with fewer defects. This is due to hydrogen's ability to suppress coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption on the catalyst surface, reducing the surface coverage of adsorbed carbon species. As the concentration of these species is reduced, they are less likely to polymerize and form coke. Hydrogen increases catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on the Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst, with a propane concentration of 75% providing the optimal performance. The apparent shift in the position of the D Raman band is not yet understood. The narrowing of the Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure with fewer defects on the catalyst. The addition of H2 to the feed either increases the amount of defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases the size of the graphitic crystallites. The increase in propane dehydrogenation conversion observed with increasing H2 concentration is related to the decreased deposition of coke, which was detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, these sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of the supported Pt nanoparticles may inhibit these sites permanently. The experiments with propane concentrations of 25 and 50% show a strong increase in selectivity for each consecutive cycle. For these specific experiments, less coke of a more graphitic nature is detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, suggesting a link between the presence of relatively disordered coke deposits and side reactions, such as cracking. These effects of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms have implications for the overall process efficiency and performance, as they can lead to improved conversion and selectivity, reduced catalyst deactivation, and potentially longer catalyst lifetimes. Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affects coke formation by decreasing the formation of coke deposits and altering the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation. It increases the catalyst performance and stability, conversion and selectivity on the Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst. The addition of hydrogen leads to smaller, more ordered graphite crystallites, while less coke is formed in the presence of hydrogen. The conversion and selectivity increases when hydrogen is added. Hydrogen assists in keeping the active sites for dehydrogenation free of coke deposits. Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has a positive effect on catalyst performance, comparable to the addition of Sn, a promoter element that increases both propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hydrogen alters the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation, leading to the formation of smaller graphite crystallites with fewer defects when the partial pressure of hydrogen in the feed is increased. The addition of hydrogen to the feed either increases the amount of defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases the size of the graphitic crystallites. The increase in propane dehydrogenation conversion observed with increasing hydrogen concentration is related to the decreased deposition of coke, which was detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, highly active sites present on the catalyst induce cracking and hydrogenolysis in the presence of hydrogen. These sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of the supported Pt nanoparticles may inhibit these sites permanently. The experiments with propane concentrations of 25 and 50% show a strong increase in selectivity for each consecutive cycle. For these specific experiments, less coke of a more graphitic nature is detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, suggesting a link between the presence of relatively disordered coke deposits and side reactions, such as cracking. In the presence of high concentrations of hydrogen, more graphitic coke is formed that mainly covers the catalyst support. In the absence of hydrogen, more disordered coke is formed, that is also present on the supported Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in keeping the surface of the Pt free of these disordered coke species. Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has a positive effect on the catalyst performance, comparable to the addition of Sn, which increases both propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hydrogen alters the nature of the coke deposits formed during propane dehydrogenation, leading to the formation of smaller graphite crystallites with less defects. The addition of hydrogen to the feed either increases the amount of defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases the size of the graphitic crystallites. The increase in propane dehydrogenation conversion observed with increasing hydrogen concentration is related to the decreased deposition of coke. Initially, active sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of the supported Pt nanoparticles may permanently inhibit these sites. The experiments with propane concentrations of 25 and 50% show a strong increase in selectivity for each consecutive cycle. For these specific experiments, less coke of a more graphitic nature is detected, suggesting a link between the presence of relatively disordered coke deposits and side reactions, such as cracking. In the presence of high concentrations of hydrogen, more graphitic coke is formed that mainly covers the catalyst support. In the absence of hydrogen, more disordered coke is formed, also present on the supported Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in keeping the surface of the Pt free of these disordered coke species. These effects of hydrogen on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms have implications for the overall process efficiency and performance, as they can lead to increased conversion and selectivity, reduced catalyst deactivation, and improved stability.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          氢气在丙烷脱氢(PDH)过程中的共进料对催化剂性能有积极影响，与添加Sn的效果相当，Sn可以增加丙烷转化率和丙烯选择性。氢气改变了丙烷脱氢过程中形成的焦炭沉积物的性质，导致形成具有较少缺陷的较小石墨结晶体。这是由于氢气能够通过在催化剂表面的竞争性吸附来抑制Pt基催化剂上的焦炭形成，从而减少吸附碳物种在催化剂表面的覆盖度。随着这些物种浓度的降低，它们聚合形成焦炭的可能性降低。氢气增加了Pt-Sn/Al2O3催化剂的稳定性、转化率和选择性，丙烷浓度为75%时性能最佳。D Raman带位置的明显变化目前尚不清楚。Raman带的变窄表明催化剂上具有较少缺陷的更高有序碳结构。向进料中添加H2要么增加石墨晶格中的缺陷数量，要么减小石墨晶格的尺寸。随着H2浓度的增加，观察到丙烷脱氢转化率的增加与通过operando Raman光谱检测到的焦炭沉积减少有关。最初，这些位点被焦炭抑制，但支撑的Pt纳米粒子的烧结可能会永久抑制这些位点。丙烷浓度为25%和50%的实验显示，每个连续循环的选择性都有显著提高。对于这些特定实验，通过operando Raman光谱检测到较少的焦炭，具有更石墨化的性质，这表明相对无序的焦炭沉积物与裂解等副反应之间存在联系。氢气共进料对焦炭形成、催化剂稳定性和反应机制的影响对整体过程效率和性能有影响，因为它们可以导致转化率和选择性的提高，催化剂失活减少，可能催化剂寿命更长。氢气在丙烷脱氢(PDH)过程中的共进料通过减少焦炭沉积物的形成和改变丙烷脱氢过程中形成的焦炭沉积物的性质，影响焦炭形成。它提高了催化剂性能和稳定性，提高了Pt-Sn/Al2O3催化剂的转化率和选择性。氢气的加入导致更小、更有序的石墨结晶体的形成，而在氢气存在下形成的焦炭较少。当加入氢气时，转化率和选择性增加。氢气有助于保持脱氢活性位点免受焦炭沉积物的污染。在丙烷脱氢(PDH)过程中，氢气共进料对催化剂性能有积极影响，与添加Sn(一种促进元素，可同时提高丙烷转化率和丙烯选择性)的效果相当。氢气改变了丙烷脱氢过程中形成的焦炭沉积物的性质，导致当进料中氢气的分压增加时，形成更小、缺陷更少的石墨结晶体。向进料中添加氢气要么增加石墨晶格中的缺陷数量，要么减小石墨晶格的尺寸。随着氢气浓度的增加，观察到的丙烷脱氢转化率的增加与通过原位拉曼光谱检测到的焦炭沉积量的减少有关。最初，催化剂上存在的高活性位点在氢气存在下诱导裂解和氢解。这些位点最初被焦炭抑制，但支撑的Pt纳米颗粒的烧结可能会永久抑制这些位点。丙烷浓度为25%和50%的实验显示，每个连续循环的选择性都有显著提高。对于这些特定的实验，通过原位拉曼光谱检测到的焦炭较少，性质更石墨化，这表明相对无序的焦炭沉积物与裂解等副反应之间存在联系。在高浓度氢气的存在下，形成更多的石墨化焦炭，主要覆盖催化剂载体。在没有氢气的情况下，形成更多的无序焦炭，也存在于支撑的Pt纳米颗粒上。氢气有助于保持Pt表面免受这些无序焦炭物种的污染。在丙烷脱氢(PDH)过程中，氢气共进料对催化剂性能有积极影响，与添加Sn的效果相当，Sn可以同时提高丙烷转化率和丙烯选择性。氢气改变了丙烷脱氢过程中形成的焦炭沉积物的性质，导致形成缺陷较少的较小石墨结晶体。向进料中添加氢气要么增加石墨晶格中的缺陷数量，要么减小石墨晶格的尺寸。随着氢气浓度的增加，观察到的丙烷脱氢转化率的增加与焦炭沉积的减少有关。最初，活性位点被焦炭抑制，但支撑的Pt纳米颗粒的烧结可能会永久抑制这些位点。丙烷浓度为25%和50%的实验显示，每个连续循环的选择性都有显著提高。对于这些特定的实验，检测到的焦炭较少，性质更石墨化，这表明相对无序的焦炭沉积物的存在与裂解等副反应之间存在联系。在高浓度氢气的存在下，形成了更多的石墨化焦炭，主要覆盖催化剂载体。在没有氢气的情况下，形成了更多的无序焦炭，也存在于支撑的Pt纳米颗粒上。氢气有助于保持Pt表面没有这些无序的焦炭物种。氢气对焦炭形成、催化剂稳定性和反应机制的影响对整体过程效率和性能有影响，因为它们可以导致转化率和选择性的提高，催化剂失活的减少和稳定性的提高。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
