<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities such as acid strength and stability, and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The stability and tolerance to carbon deposits of Zr-Al-Beta promoted by alkali-metal ions were demonstrated. The modification of alkali-metal ions on both Lewis acid sites and Brnsted acid sites in Zr-Al-Beta was evidenced by XPS and FT-IR spectroscopy. The untreated materials displayed poor product selectivity and high coke deposit in the Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley reduction of furfural and isopropanol; however, the treatment of alkali-metal ions promoted their catalytic performance with improved recalcitrance to deactivation and coking significantly. The type of alkali-metal ions and the concentration of alkaline solution influenced the catalytic performance, which were found to correlate to the acidity and textual properties. The optimum reaction result (97.3% yield of furfuryl alcohol at 99.6% conversion of furfural) can be obtained on 0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta with high tolerance to the furfural concentration. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For instance, the post-synthetic method is demonstrated to be preferential to form open sites, which have stronger Lewis acidic properties than the closed sites. The simple post-synthetic strategy to prepare a Zr-Al-Beta zeolite with both plentiful Lewis acid open Zr (IV) sites and Brnsted acid sites has shown a superior catalytic activity, water-tolerance ability, and reusability in the cascade conversion of cinnamaldehyde toward 1-cinnamyl 2-propyl ether. The controllable tuning for the acid properties with various active sites is greatly required to promote some of the chemical transformations and avoid the possibility of other undesired reaction pathways except for the aimed reaction route, such as dehydration, polymerization, and isomerization.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化剂的物理化学性质，包括化学品质如酸强度和稳定性，以及形态特征，对脱氢反应的性能有重大影响。通过XPS和FT-IR光谱证实了碱金属离子对Zr-Al-Beta中Lewis酸位点和Brnsted酸位点的改性。未经处理的材料在Meerwein-Ponndorf-Verley还原中对糠醛和异丙醇的产物选择性差，焦炭沉积高；然而，碱金属离子的处理显著提高了它们的催化性能，显著提高了对失活和结焦的抗性。碱金属离子的类型和碱性溶液的浓度影响催化性能，这与酸性和文本属性相关。在0.025 M-Na+-Zr-Al-Beta上，可以得到最佳反应结果（99.6%糠醛转化率下糠醇产量为97.3%），对糠醛浓度具有高耐受性。可以采用载体改性策略来优化这些性质，以提高催化效率和选择性。例如，后合成方法被证明有利于形成开放位点，其Lewis酸性比封闭位点更强。通过简单的后合成策略制备的Zr-Al-Beta沸石，同时具有丰富的Lewis酸性开放Zr(IV)位点和Brnsted酸位点，在肉桂醛向1-肉桂基2-丙基醚的级联转化中表现出优异的催化活性、耐水性和可重复使用性。需要对具有各种活性位点的酸性进行可控调谐，以促进某些化学转化，并避免除目标反应途径外的其他不希望的反应途径，如脱水、聚合和异构化。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
