element not found
element not found
ACS ACS Publications C&EN CAS
Access provided byTIANJIN UNIV Log In
Pair your account to your Institution
Click the pair button to affiliate your institution with your personal account
PAIR
Turn off this notification
more info...
RETURN TO BOOKPREVCHAPTERNEXT
Factors Determining the Selectivity in the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Propane over Boria—Alumina Catalysts
O. V. Buyevskaya
, M. Kubik
, and M. Baerns
DOI: 10.1021/bk-1996-0638.ch011
Publication Date:August 13, 1996
Request reuse permissions
Copyright © 1996 American Chemical Society.
Heterogeneous Hydrocarbon Oxidation
Chapter 11pp 155-169
ACS Symposium SeriesVol. 638
ISBN13: 9780841234222eISBN: 9780841215870
Chapter Views
107
Citations
20
LEARN ABOUT THESE METRICS
Share
Export
RIS
Access Through Your Institution
Other access options
SUBJECTS:Alkyls,Catalysts,Oxidative dehydrogenation,Oxygen,Selectivity
Abstract
Boria-alumina catalysts are active in the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. For undoped Al2O3, carbon oxides were the main products while the addition of 30 wt% B2O3 led to a significant increase in propene selectivity; propene yields of 18 % were achieved at 823 K. Pulse experiments with C3D8 in the temporal-analysis-of-products reactor and spectroscopic studies showed that an addition of boria in the amount of less than a monolayer eliminates hydroxyl groups of γ-alumina involved in H-D exchange with propane. The suppression of the dissociative adsorption of propane resulted in a decrease of catalyst activity but did not improve propene selectivity. Oxygen isotopic exchange between gas-phase 18O2 and surface 16O was used to study the role of oxygen activation in the overall process; only for high boria loading no oxygen exchange products were detected. The suppression of both, dissociative adsorption of propane and oxygen, was found to be necessary for the improvement of propene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over boria-alumina catalysts. It was assumed that higher propene selectivity can be achieved by secondary reactions of propyl radicals formed on the surface after their release into the gas phase due to diminished surface oxidation.
Read this Chapter
To access this chapter, please review the available access options below.
Recommended
Access through Your Institution
You may have access to this chapter through your institution.
Access Through Your Institution
Log in to Access
You may have access to this chapter with your ACS ID if you have previously purchased it or have ACS member benefits. Log in below.
Login with ACS ID
Partners
1155 Sixteenth Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20036
Copyright © 2024
American Chemical Society
About
About ACS Publications
ACS & Open Access
ACS Membership
ACS Publications Blog
Resources and Information
Journals A-Z
Books and Reference
Advertising Media Kit
Institutional Sales
ACS Researcher Resources
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Support & Contact
Help
Live Chat
FAQ
Connect with ACS Publications