ADVANCES IN CATALYSIS, VOLUME 45
Theoretical Surface Science and
Catalysis—Calculations and Concepts
B. HAMMER
Institute of Physics
Aalborg University
DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark
AND
J. K. NØRSKOV
Center for Atomic-Scale Materials Physics
Department of Physics
Technical University of Denmark
DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark
The application of density functional theory to calculate adsorption properties, reac-
tion pathways, and activation energies for surface chemical reactions is reviewed.
Particular emphasis is placed on developing concepts that can be used to understand
and predict variations in reactivity from one transition metal to the next or the effects
of alloying, surface structure, and adsorbate–adsorbate interactions on the reactivity.
Most examples discussed are concerned with the catalytic properties of transition metal
surfaces, but it is shown that the calculational approach and the concepts developed
to understand trends in reactivity for metals can also be used for sulﬁde and oxide
catalysts.
2000 Academic Press.
I.
Introduction
When a solid catalyst is used to speed up a chemical process, the overall
reaction usually consists of a series of elementary steps. These include
Abbreviations:
B3LYP, Beckes hybrid description of exchange-correlation effects; bcc, body
centred cubic; DFT, density functional theory; DOS, density of (one-electron) states; fcc, face
centred cubic; GGA, generalized gradient approximation; hcp, hexagonal close packed; LDA,
local density approximation; LEED, low energy electron diffraction; LMTO, linerized mufﬁn
tin orbital; PBE, Perdew, Burke, Ernzerhof exchange-correlation; PW91, Perdew, Wang 91
version of exchange-correlation; RPBE, Hammer, Hansen, Norskov modiﬁed PBE exchange-
correlation; TS, transition state; Echem, chemisorption energy; W, band width; F, fermi energy;
d, center of d-band; a, adsorbate energy level; V, coupling matrix element; Vad, adsorbate-
metal d coupling matrix element; Vdd, metal d–metal d coupling matrix element; r, chemical
reaction rate; v, frequency factor; Ea, activation energy; k, Boltzmann’s constant; Ees; electro-
static energy difference; ii, sum of one-electron energies; Edip, dipole–dipole interaction
energy; , dipole moment; , electric ﬁeld strength; Esegr, segregation energy.
71
Copyright 2000 by Academic Press. All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.
0360-0564/00 $35.00
72
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
adsorption of the reactants on the surface of the solid, diffusion on the
surface, breaking of some reactant bonds, and the creation of new ones to
form the product molecules, which eventually desorb from the surface. The
complexity of these processes and of the catalysts makes it a demanding
task to establish a molecular-level understanding of heterogeneous catalysis.
The appraoch taken in surface science has been to study elementary reac-
tions on well-deﬁned single-crystal surfaces in order to build an understand-
ing of some of the basic processes involved in catalysis. Single-crystal sur-
faces are only crude models of the high-surface-area catalysts used
industrially. Catalysts need to have a high surface area, and they often
consist of mixtures of phases, some of which have the catalytically active
surface, whereas others support the small particles of active phases or
keep them from sintering. Recently, the methods of surface science have
developed further and it has become possible to produce and study models
of supported catalysts and to investigate them under realistic high-pressure
and -temperature conditions (1–8). This rapidly closes the gap between the
surface science studies and studies of real catalysts. Simultaneously, the
methods used to characterize high-surface-area catalysts have been reﬁned
considerably, and it has become possible to characterize the structure and
other properties of the working catalysts in situ (9–12). Together, these
different types of experiments have provided us with a wealth of detailed
information
about
surface
structures,
adsorption
geometries,
bond
strengths, and elementary reaction steps.
The rapidly increasing amount of data emphasizes the need for a concep-
tual framework for understanding or rationalizing the results. It would be
extremely helpful to have an understanding of the most important factors
determiningtheabilityofasurfacetobindorreactwithaparticularmolecule.
An important step toward a fundamental description of surface chemical
processes has been taken recently with the development of quantum theo-
retical methods allowing us to calculate equilibrium structures, adsorption
energies, reaction paths, and activation energies for simple processes on
metal surfaces. The accuracy is still not sufﬁcient to calculate rates of
chemical reactions, but it is sufﬁcient for a semiquantitative description of
adsorption and reaction processes, and in particular for comparing different
systems. The latter is particularly important if one wants theoretical input
into a search for surfaces with a desired activity or selectivity for a given
chemical reaction.
In this review, we discuss how the calculational methods in close conjunc-
tion with experiments can be used to develop some useful concepts to
describe and understand adsorption and reactions on surfaces. We concen-
trate mainly on metal surfaces because this is the area in which both the
experiments and the calculations are most advanced. Many of the concepts
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
73
developed for metal surfaces are more generally applicable also to semicon-
ductors, oxides, and sulﬁdes, and we illustrate this point at the end of
this review. We show how we are beginning to understand which surface
properties govern the variations in reactivity from one metal to the next and
how adsorbate–adsorbate interactions, surface structure, strain, alloying,
defects, and impurities may affect the reactivity.
The basis for our discussion of adsorbate–surface reactions is the density
functional theory. We use density functional theory in accurate self-consis-
tent calculations of adsorption properties and also as a basis for the develop-
ment of models that discern the important physical quantities determining
the reactivity of a given surface. We therefore start in Section II by giving
a short description of the theoretical methods used and a discussion of
their accuracy. We also discuss simple models of the electronic structure
to be used in the following sections. In Section III, we discuss adsorption
and surface reactions by treating in detail the simplest surface process,
adsorption. We discuss in particular how the adsorption energy varies from
one metal to the next. We also discuss the similar variation from one
adsorbate to the next. We use the adsorption theory to introduce the
parameters describing the surface which determine its ability to interact
with an adsorbate. In Section IV we treat the more complex processes of
molecules or atoms reacting on the surface. We focus in particular on trends
in activation energies from one system to the next and show that the
reactivity measures developed for simple atomic adsorption also work here.
We use this as a starting point for a discussion in Section V of ways to
change the reactivity of a given metal by changing the structure, by alloying,
or by poisoning or promoting the surface by coadsorbed atoms and mole-
cules. In Section VI, we summarize our results for metallic surfaces and
establish a connection to the ﬁeld of nonmetal catalysis.
II.
Theory of Adsorbate–Surface Interactions
The theoretical description of adsorbate–surface interactions is divided
into two levels: (i) the accurate, but computationally demanding, calculation
of adsorption properties, and (ii) the model description which is approxi-
mate but computationally simple. The large-scale calculations can be viewed
as computer experiments. They complement real experiments in several
ways. Often, it is a good check of an experiment or an interpretation of
an experiment to have a calculation for comparison. There are also cases
for which the calculation is simpler than the experiment. For example,
consider an important fundamental property of a surface such as the surface
energy. It is very difﬁcult to measure, and currently the best source of
74
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
surface energies is calculations, which have been performed for all the
metals in the periodic table (13). Finally, the calculation can sometimes be
performed for situations that are not realizable experimentally. For in-
stance, it is very simple to change the lattice constant of a metal in a
calculation and bring out the effect of strain on the reactivity without
concern about the problems associated with straining a crystal in real life
(14). The ability to use the computer experiments to test models and theories
of catalysis has recently breathed new life into the development of models
and understanding of catalysis. The models are needed to bring out the
concepts around which our description and understanding of catalysis re-
volves. What are the parameters of a surface determining its ability to
adsorb a molecule or let one molecule react with another? Why are some
adsorbates more reactive than others on a given surface? It is not possible,
or even desirable, to have to perform a complete calculation or an experi-
ment for each new system considered. We would like to be able to under-
stand directly how a change in the catalyst composition or structure should
change its reactivity. The models are essential in bringing out this under-
standing.
In the following sections, we ﬁrst discuss brieﬂy the calculational strate-
gies and the strengths and limitations of the calculations. We then introduce
some simple models and concepts to be used in the rest of the review to
discuss and understand and the results of the calculations.
A.
DENSITY FUNCTIONAL THEORY CALCULATIONS
There are two basically different approaches to the calculation of the
electronic structure and total energies of molecules and solids: the wave
function-based methods (15) and the density functional theory (DFT) meth-
ods (16–18). The former, which can be very accurate if a high level of
conﬁguration interactions is included, is currently limited to 10–100 elec-
trons. If we consider transition metal surfaces, this limits the number of
atoms that can be treated to about 10 since each transition metal has on
the order of 10 valence electrons. This generally makes these methods
unattractive for routine treatments of the complex systems needed to model
catalysts. There are elegant ways of embedding a very accurately described
region into a less accurately described surrounding region, which can in-
crease the system sizes and make wave function-based methods very useful
(19). The computational cost of such calculations and the limited size of
systems that can be treated mean that, in a surface science and catalysis
context, they are primarily useful as benchmarks, which can be used to
gauge the accuracy of the less computationally demanding DFT methods.
In the following, we therefore concentrate on the DFT methods.
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
75
Density functional theory describes how the ground state electron density
and total energy can be obtained by solving a set of one-electron Schro
¨d-
inger equations (the Kohn–Sham equations) instead of the complicated
many-electron Schro
¨dinger equation. This results in an enormous computa-
tional simpliﬁcation, and systems with more than 1000 electrons can be
treated.
There are several different methods used to solve the Kohn–Sham equa-
tions. In short, they can be characterized by the model used to describe
the surface, by the kind of basis set used, and by the approximation used
in the treatment of exchange-correlation effects:
1.
The Model Used to Describe the Surface
The calculations cannot describe all the atoms in a solid or a catalyst
particle, and a strategy must be chosen to limit the number of atoms treated
explicitly. Two basic types of methods exist:
 Cluster methods, which describe only a limited cluster of the surface
atoms in the hope that the surface atoms farther away from the adsorbates
of interest are not important.
 Slab methods, whereby the surface is described as a slab with a periodic
structure along the surface. The size of the surface unit cell determines the
computational effort, and in principle the unit cell should be chosen to be
large enough so that the adsorbates in neighboring unit cells do not interact.
The two types of models are illustrated in Fig. 1. The slab method can
be viewed as a particular choice for the boundary conditions in the cluster
approach, which, however, is generally found to describe the surface proper-
ties better than the cluster approach for a given number of atoms in the
super cell or the cluster, respectively. In both methods, only a ﬁnite number
of atomic layers can be included, and this will always represent an approxi-
mation. In addition, there are Greens function-based methods which can,
in principle, treat a single adsorbate on a semi-inﬁnite substrate (20–22),
but they are not widely used.
2.
The Basis Set
Two basic types of basis sets are most widely used:
 Localized functions [gaussians, atomic orbitals, linearized mufﬁn tin
orbitals (LMTOs), etc.]
 Plane waves [including augmented plane waves (LAPWs), etc.]
The choice depends on preference and the kind of problem studied.
Localized functions are thus the usual choice in cluster-type models,
76
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 1.
Illustration of cluster and slab representations of an H2 molecule (small circles)
interacting with a semi-inﬁnite surface. Replicas of the super cell atoms are shown with
open circles.
whereas both localized (LMTOs) and plane waves are used in slab-type
calculations. Usually, the core electrons are not treated explicitly, but in-
stead are included as ‘‘frozen’’ or through a pseudopotential description
of the ionic core (23). There are also elegant methods whereby the localized
states are projected out and treated differently from the valence elec-
trons (24).
3.
The Description of Exchange Correlation
The error made by the choice of model used to describe the surface or
the basis set can be controlled by increasing the size up to the point of
convergence. This leaves the choice of exchange correlation functional as
the main approximation in the DFT calculations. The most accurate method
for treating exchange and correlation is probably Becke’s hybrid de-
scription of exchange-correlation effects (B3LYP) (25). In this method,
a Hartree–Fock calculation is performed to derive the exact exchange
energy, which is mixed with the DFT-based exchange energy. This hybrid
method is therefore computationally very demanding. Less computationally
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
77
demanding are calculations which make use of one form or another of the
generalized gradient approximation (GGA) (26–28). As illustrated in Table
I, different GGA ﬂavors can give quite different adsorption energies—they
all, however, represent a great improvement over the local density approxi-
mation (LDA) description of the adsorption bond (29–33). The variations
between different GGAs may be viewed as the intrinsic uncertainty of
these methods. Adsorption energies or energy barriers are therefore not
TABLE I
Calculated Chemisorption Energies as a Function of the Exchange-Correlation Energy
Functional, Compared with Measured Chemisorption Energiesa
Echem
LDA
PW91
PBE
RPBE
E exp
chem
O(fcc)/Ni(111)
6.68
5.38
5.27
4.77
4.84
O(hol)/Ni(100)
6.97
5.66
5.55
5.03
5.41
O(hol)/Rh(100)
6.64
5.34
5.23
4.71
4.56
O(fcc)/Pd(111)
5.34
4.08
3.98
3.49
O(hol)/Pd(100)
5.39
4.14
4.04
3.53
O
1.84
0.57
0.47
0.24
CO(fcc)/Ni(111)
2.85
1.99
1.88
1.49
1.35
CO(hol)/Ni(100)
3.05
2.11
2.00
1.58
1.26
CO(brd)/Rh(100)
3.02
2.28
2.16
1.81
1.19
CO(fcc)/Pd(111)
2.95
2.07
1.96
1.56
(1.47)
CO(brd)/Pd(100)
2.77
1.98
1.87
1.50
1.69
CO
1.58
0.78
0.67
0.37
(1.49)
(0.64)
(0.54)
(0.23)
NO(hol)b/Ni(100)
6.31
4.52
4.41
3.68
3.99
NO(brd)/Rh(100)
3.73
2.76
2.67
2.28
NO(fcc)/Pd(111)
3.27
2.20
2.12
1.67
(1.86)
NO(hol)/Pd(100)
3.19
2.12
2.04
1.58
1.61
NO
1.98
0.52
0.43
0.22
tot
1.76
0.66
0.56
0.30
(1.76)
(0.58)
(0.48)
(0.23)
a LDA is the local density approximation, and PW91 (Perdew, Wang 91 version of ex-
change correlation), PBE (Perdew, Burke, Ernzerhof exchange correlation), and RPBE (Ham-
mer, Hansen, Nørshov modiﬁed PBE exchange correlation) are different GGAs. All values
are in eV per adsorbate. The rms deviations for the calculated chemisorption energies for O,
CO, and NO (O, CO, and NO, respectively) and for all three adsorbates (tot) have been
compiled only against the highly accurate microcalorimetric experimental results from Brown
et al. (34). Chemisorption energies derived from temperature-programmed desorption experi-
ments are given in parentheses. The  values in parentheses occur when the CO/Rh(100)
data are neglected. The Echem value is relative to atomic O in the gas phase. From Hammer
et al. (28). b Dissociative adsorption.
78
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
determined with uncertainties less than about 0.25 eV or 25 kJ/mol. Fortu-
nately, energy differences and variations among systems are usually more
accurate than because the errors tend to cancel for like systems. This means
that vibrational frequencies and structures are usually extremely good in
any of the methods. It also means that trends are better, and this is what
we mainly focus on.
B.
SIMPLE MODELS
We consider in this section the simplest one-electron description of the
quantum mechanics of atoms and molecules interacting with a metal surface.
The idea is not to give an accurate description (this was discussed pre-
viously) but instead to bring out the essential physics.
A one-electron state in an atom or molecule outside a metal surface will
interact with all the valence states of the surface atoms. These states form
a band or several bands of states. Figure 2 shows a typical density of states
for a transition metal. The broad s band is half ﬁlled—all the transition
metals have one s electron (in the metallic state)—and the d states are
seen to form much narrower bands. The occupancy of the d bands varies
along the transition metals as they shift through the Fermi level. The narrow
d bands are a consequence of the small coupling matrix element Vdd between
the localized d states; one of the important conclusions from tight binding
theory is that the band width is proportional to Vdd (35).
Since d bands are narrow, the interaction of an adsorbate state with the
d electrons of a surface often gives rise to bonding and antibonding states
just as in a simple two-state problem. This is illustrated in Fig. 3, which
also illustrates what happens in the case of interaction with a broad band
such as the s band of a metal. The adsorbate state only broadens. The
broad band limit with a single resonance is often called ‘‘weak chemisorp-
FIG. 2.
Schematic illustration of the density of states of a transition metal, showing the
broad s band and the narrow d bands (width W) around the Fermi level, F.
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
79
FIG. 3.
The local density of states at an adsorbate in two limiting cases: (a) for a broad
surface band; (b) for a narrow metal band. Case a corresponds to the interaction with a metal
s band and case b is representative of the interaction with a transition metal d band.
tion,’’ whereas when there are split-off bonding and antibonding states we
refer to ‘‘strong chemisorption’’ (36).
Figure 4 shows the result of a model calculation whereby a single ad-
sorbate level is coupled by a matrix element V to a band of states. In the
calculation, V is kept ﬁxed as the band is shifted up in energy. The ﬁlling
of the band is kept ﬁxed so that as the center of the band d is shifted up
toward the Fermi level, the band width W decreases. When the band is
low and broad, only a single resonance can be seen at the bottom of the
band, but as d shifts up a distinctive antibonding state appears above the
band. Since these antibonding states are above the Fermi level, they are
empty, and the bond becomes increasingly stronger as the number of empty
antibonding states increases. The model calculation illustrates the transition
between ‘‘weak’’ and ‘‘strong’’ chemisorption. The model calculation also
illustrates a general principle about bonding at a surface: Strong bonding
occurs if antibonding states are shifted up through the Fermi level (and
become empty). The same is true if bonding states are shifted down through
the Fermi level (and become ﬁlled). We use this general principle exten-
sively in the following section.
III.
The Chemisorption Bond
In this section, we consider the bonding of an adsorbate to a surface.
First, we discuss the simplest example of an atomic adsorbate and then
increase the level of complexity by considering molecular adsorbates.
A.
ATOMIC ADSORBATES
To illustrate the general quality of the DFT calculations for the calcula-
tion of chemisorption properties, consider as a ﬁrst example oxygen adsorp-
80
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 4.
The local density of states projected onto an adsorbate state interacting with the
d bands at a surface. The strength of the adsorbate–surface coupling matrix element V is
kept ﬁxed as the center of the d bands d is shifted up toward the Fermi energy (F  0) and
the width W of the d bands is decreased to keep the number of electrons in the bands constant.
As d shifts up, the antibonding states are emptied above F and the bond becomes stronger
(bottom). The calculation was done by using the Newns–Anderson model (37). Adapted from
Hammer (38).
tion on the Pt(111) surface. This system has been studied in detail experi-
mentally (39) and in several theoretical investigations (40, 41). We
concentrate on the ordered p(2  2) oxygen overlayer structure observed
at a quarter of a monolayer of oxygen atoms. Figure 5 shows the geometry
of this structure including relaxations of the platinum atoms at the surface
and three layers down, as deduced from results of low-energy electron
diffraction experiments. We also show the result of a DFT calculation (40).
The equilibrium structure is determined by allowing all the coordinates of
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
81
FIG. 5.
The experimental and theoretical (PW91) equilibrium structure of the Pt(111)–
p(2  2)–O system. From Hammer and Nørskov (40). The experimental results are from
Starke et al. [39].
the atoms in the oxygen adlayer and in the two ﬁrst layers to vary until
the lowest-energy geometry is found. Clearly, all bond lengths and the
relaxation pattern are reproduced by the calculation down to the 1%
level.
The chemisorption potential energy, including relaxations of the platinum
substrate, is calculated to be EO  4.29 eV per oxygen atom relative
to an atom in the gas phase [GGA and PW91 (Perdew, Wang 91 version
of exchange correlation)]. The corresponding calculated bond energy per
oxygen atom in O2 is 2.95 eV, so the heat of adsorption is 2.68 eV per
molecule [the value found by using the RPBE (Hammer, Hansen, Nørskov
modiﬁed PBE exchange correlation) functional would be 0.2–0.3 eV higher
(28)]. This result is in reasonable agreement with results from microcalori-
metry, which gives an integral heat of adsorption for a quarter of a mono-
layer of oxygen of about 2.4 eV/O2 (34).
We can also deduce the vibrational frequency for the oxygen vibration
perpendicular to the surface. The experimental value is 58 meV (42), and
the value calculated from the curvature of the total energy as a function
of the height of the oxygen atoms above the surface is 59 meV.
To illustrate the variations in adsorption energies from one metal to the
next, consider the adsorption of atomic oxygen on many transition metals
82
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
(Fig. 6). It is seen that copper, silver, and gold bind most weakly, and the
unique nobleness of gold is clearly borne out. The O–Au surface bond is
weaker than the O–O bond so that oxygen molecules will not readily
dissociate on gold at all.
To understand the differences in chemisorption energy from one metal
FIG. 6.
Oxygen chemisorption at many close-packed late transition and noble metal
surfaces hexagonal close packed [hcp(0001)] for ruthenium, but face-centered cubic [fcc(111)]
for the other metals. A quarter monolayer of oxygen is adsorbed at the three-fold fcc site
(the three-fold hcp for ruthenium) in a p (2  2) pattern. The adsorbate height is varied, and
the metal ions are ﬁxed at the truncated bulk positions. The chemisorption energy,
E(O/surface)  E(O atom)  E (surface) is calculated by use of the PW91 functional.
From Hammer and Nørskov (40).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
83
to the next, consider in Fig. 7 the density of states projected onto one of
the O 2p states for oxygen chemisorbed on copper, silver, gold, nickel,
palladium, platinum, and ruthenium. In each case, the density of states has
a similar structure, and in Fig. 8 we show how one can think about the
origin of the main peaks in the density of states. We imagine that the bond
formation takes place in two steps (36, 40, 43). First, we let the adsorbate
valence 2p state that we consider interact with the metal s electrons. As
discussed previously, this gives rise to a single resonance. All three oxygen
2p-derived resonances are well below the Fermi level and hence completely
FIG. 7.
Local density of states projected onto the oxygen 2px state (dark-shaded area)
for atomic oxygen 1.3 A
˚ above close-packed surfaces of late transition metals (cf. Fig. 6).
The light-shaded areas give the metal d-projected DOS for the respective metal surfaces
before the oxygen chemisorption. From Hammer and Nørskov (40).
84
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 8.
Schematic illustration of the change in local electronic structure at an oxygen atom
upon adsorption on simple and transition/noble metal surfaces. First, the sharp atomic states
of the gas phase are broadened into resonances and shifted down due to the interaction with
the metal sp states. Next, these renormalized states interact with the narrow d bands at the
transition and noble metal surfaces, forming covalent bonding and antibonding states below
and above the initial adsorbate and surface states. The coupling to the metal d electrons can
roughly be viewed as a two-level coupling. The O/Pt(111) and Pt(111) DOS are from the
self-consistent calculations in Fig. 7.
ﬁlled (one could say that the oxygen is in a 2 state). We then turn on the
coupling to the d electrons. Since the d bands are narrow, this gives rise
to strong interaction; that is, it gives rise to a splitting of the oxygen reso-
nance into two: one state which is bonding with respect to the adsorbate
and metal d states and another above the d bands which is antibonding.
The interpretation of the changes in electronic structure discussed pre-
viously has some immediate consequences for our understanding of the
trends in the binding energies. We can also think of the binding energy as
having two components—one from the coupling to the metal s states and
one due to the extra coupling to the d states (36, 40, 43–45). Judging from
the calculated densities of states in Fig. 7, we arrive at two conclusions: (i)
The coupling to the d states is essentially a two-level problem giving rise
to a bonding and an antibonding state, and (ii) the d bands can to a large
extent be characterized by the band center, d, only.
There are two general trends in Fig. 6 that must be explained. First in
general, the farther to the left in the periodic table, the stronger the bond.
Second, the farther down the periodic table, the weaker the interaction;
the 5d metals are more noble than the 4d and 3d metals.
To understand these two effects, we ﬁrst note that since the contribution
from the coupling to the metal s states is approximately the same for each
of the metals considered, the main trends in the chemisorption energies
should be given by the coupling to the d electrons (45).
The ﬁrst effect is simple to understand in light of the previous discussion.
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
85
As we move to the left from copper, silver, or gold, the d bands move up
in energy, and increasingly more antibonding adsorbate–metal d states
become empty. This is clearly shown in Fig. 7. For copper, silver, and gold,
the antibonding states are completely ﬁlled because the d bands are well
below the Fermi level. As we move farther to the left in the 3d, 4d, or 5d
series, the d bands shift up and the antibonding states become depopulated.
The effect is illustrated more fully in Fig. 9, in which it is shown that the
oxygen chemisorption energies become increasingly stronger as we move
to the left in the 4d transition metal series. Figure 9 includes experimental
values, and the effect is evident in both the calculated and the measured
values. In Fig. 9, it is also shown that the adsorption energy varies with
the position of the d band center relative to the Fermi level, just as in the
model calculation in Fig. 4, showing that the d band center is one possible
measure of the reactivity of the transition metals. We note that the band
FIG. 9.
Comparison of DFT-based oxygen chemisorption energies, E(O/surface) 

E(O2)  E (surface) (PW91), experimental values, and model estimates of the bond strengths
for the various close-packed transition and noble metal surfaces. Data represented by open
circles were determined by using the Newns–Anderson model. The experimental values are
from Toyoshima and Somorjai (49). (Bottom) The calculated adsorption energies correlate
well with the d band center d.
86
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
center, the ﬁlling, and the width of the d bands vary through the 4d series,
i.e., the three quantities are strongly coupled. We choose to focus here on
the band center, but we could also have chosen either of the other two
parameters. It is shown below that this choice provides a very general
picture. It is clear from the previous argument that the same trends should
be expected of all simple atomic adsorbates with a ﬁlled valence level (after
interaction with the metal s band), including hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen,
ﬂuorine, sulfur, and chlorine (40, 46–48).
To understand the second effect a slightly deeper analysis is required.
We start by considering copper, silver, and gold, each of which has a ﬁlled
d band and, according to Fig. 7, a negligible contribution to the bonding
from the emptying of antibonding oxygen 2p–metal d states. There is,
however, still a contribution from the interaction between the metal d
electrons and the oxygen 2p states. The Pauli principle states that no two
electrons can be in the same state, which means that the oxygen 2p states
have to become orthogonal to the metal d states when they come into
contact (40, 46). This raises the kinetic energy by an amount that is approxi-
mately proportional to the square of the adsorbate–metal d coupling matrix
element V2
ad; the stronger the overlap, the larger the repulsion.
FIG. 10.
Section of the periodic table with the 3d, 4d, and 5d transition metals. Shown in
the lower right corner for each element is bulk Wigner–Seitz radius, s. In the lower left corner,
the center of the d band is calculated for the most close-packed surface for each of the metals
[(111) for fcc, (001) for hcp, and (110) for bcc]. In the upper right corner is shown the behavior
of the adsorbate (s or p)–metal d-coupling matrix element squared, V 2
ad. The V 2
ad’s generally
decrease for increasing nuclear charge within a row and increase down the groups. All the
values, except for the properties of zinc, cadmium, and mercury were compiled from Andersen
et al. (50). In the upper left corner, the idealized d band ﬁllings are shown. These are similar
to the actual, calculated bulk d band ﬁllings considering the uncertainties in interpreting
them (50).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
87
The absolute magnitude of V2
ad depends on the metal, the adsorbate,
and the position of the adsorbate relative to the metal, but for a given
adsorbate and a ﬁxed adsorbate geometry the variations of the matrix
element depend only on the extent of the metal d states. The variation in
V2
ad from one metal to the next for a ﬁxed adsorbate and adsorbate geometry
is therefore a property of the metal. For each element we know the relative
strength of the coupling matrix element directly from tabulated values of
the LMTO potential functions (40, 50). The values are shown in Fig. 10
for a large section of the periodic table.
Using the data in Fig. 10, we can test the hypothesis that the variation
in adsorption strength from copper to gold is given mainly by the Pauli
repulsion. In Fig. 11 we plot the calculated bond energies as a function of
V2
ad, and the proportionality is clearly seen. Gold has the most extended
d states, the largest V2
ad, and therefore the largest repulsion. This makes
oxygen least stable on gold, and thus gold is the most noble metal (46).
The same is true for hydrogen (46) and sulfur (40) and should, according
tothemodel,holdforotherelectronegativeadsorbates(suchasthehalogens)
with deep-lying valence states after coupling with the metal sp states. For
carbon and nitrogen, the picture is very similar, but here the adsorbate va-
FIG. 11.
The calculated chemisorption energy, Echem, for 
 ML oxygen on Cu(111),
Ag(111), and Au(111) (cf. Fig. 6) plotted versus the coupling matrix elementes squared,
V 2
ad, from Fig. 10. The proportionality conﬁrms that the variations in bond strength are given
by the strength of the Pauli repulsion between the oxygen 2p states and the metal d states.
88
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
lencestatesaresufﬁcientlyhigh-lyingthatthecouplingtothedstatesisstrong
enough to push antibonding states above the Fermi level for gold. This is not
possible for silver, which has a deeper-lying d band and a smaller coupling
matrix element. For these adsorbates, silver is slightly more noble than gold.
Examination of the values of V2
ad for the metals to the right for copper,
silver, and gold in the periodic table (Fig. 10) shows that the smallest value
is for zinc. These metals also have low-energy d states and no bonding
contribution due to the emptying of antibonding states, and the strength
of the oxygen bonding should therefore also be given primarily by the size
of V2
ad. The previously discussed scenario would therefore suggest that
oxygen and the other electronegative adsorbates should bind most strongly
to zinc and that after gold, mercury should be the most noble.
The transition metals to the left of copper, silver, and gold will have the
repulsive Pauli repulsion in addition to the attractive interaction due to
the empty antibonding states disucssed previously. Both the Pauli repulsion
and the attractive interaction due to bond formation become stronger as
the matrix elements become larger. As long as the repulsion is stronger
than the attraction, the 5d metals will be more noble than the 4d metals,
which will be more noble than the 3d metals just above them in the periodic
table. This reﬂects the fact that the 5d orbitals are always more extended
than the 4d orbitals, which are in turn more extended than the 3d orbitals
(Fig. 10). Since the bond strength increases as a result of moving to the
left and up in the transition metal series, the platinum group metals in the
lower right corner should be the most noble.
B.
MOLECULAR ADSORBATES
The adsorption of molecules is only slightly more complicated to describe
than atomic adsorption. The main complication arises from the fact that
usually several adsorbate valence states are important for the interaction
with a surface.
As the ﬁrst example, consider the adsorption of CO. Several theoretical
studies (51–54) suggest that the ﬁlled 5 and the doubly degenerate, empty
2* electronic states are mainly responsible for the bonding to metal sur-
faces.
It is possible to understand the changes in electronic structure during
CO chemisorption using exactly the same two-step process as for the atomic
adsorbates. This is illustrated in Fig. 12. We consider here the change in
the adsorbate density of states when a CO molecule interacts with a metal
with only s electrons and the case in which there are also d electrons with
which the CO states can interact. It is seen that the interaction with the
metallic s electrons gives rise to a downshift and broadening of both the
2 and 5 states, whereas the coupling to the metallic d states gives rise
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
89
FIG. 12.
The self-consistent electronic DOS projected onto the 5 and 2* orbitals of CO:
in vacuum and on Al(111) and Pt(111) surfaces. Also shown is the DOS from the d bands
in the Pt(111) surface. The sharp states of CO in vacuum are seen to broaden into resonances
and shift down in energy on the simple metal surface (mixing with the 4 state causes additional
structure in the 5 resonance). On the transition metal surfaces the CO resonances further
hybridize with the metal d states. This leads to shifts in the 5 and 2* levels and to antibonding
5–d states at the top of the d bands and bonding 2*–d states at the bottom. These states
have low weight in the 5 and 2* projections shown. Adapted from Hammer et al. (55).
to bonding and antibonding states below and above the two original states.
As a consequence of the different symmetries, the 2 and 5 states interact
with different d orbitals, and the two interactions can be treated indepen-
dently.
The current model of CO bonding is in complete agreement with the
theoretical interpretations developed by Blyholder (53), Bagus and Pacchi-
oni (52), and Van Santen and Neurock (54). Usually, the CO–metal bond
is described in terms of electron donation from the CO 5 to the metal
and back-donation from the metal to the CO 2*. With the current division
of the donation and back-donation into separate metal s and d steps, which
follows the reasoning of Bagus and Pacchioni (52), we obtain a simple
picture that can even be developed into a quantitative model of the trends
in the CO chemisorption energies on metal surfaces and overlayers (55).
Two important effects can be observed immediately from Fig. 12. First,
the 5 contribution to the bonding is quite small. There are few antibonding
states shifted above the Fermi level, and if we include the Pauli replusion
this interaction with the metal d electrons is repulsive (54). This is true for
transition metals to the right in the periodic table and for copper, silver,
and gold. The 2 interaction, on the other hand, is attractive and dominates
the variations from one metal to the next to the right in the periodic table.
The large difference from the 5 case is that the 2 state is above the Fermi
level before interaction with the d states, and in this case new bonding
states are shifted below the Fermi level. Note that there is an attractive
90
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
2–metal d interaction even for the noble metals. As we move to the left
in the periodic table from the noble metals, the bond strength increases,
again mainly because the d states move up in energy. The effect is consider-
ably weaker than for the atomic adsorbates, however. This point is illus-
trated in Fig. 13, in which the calculated adsorption strength for adsorbed
CO is compared with that of adsorbed carbon atoms and adsorbed oxygen
atoms on some 4d transition metals. The molecular adsorption is strongest
to the right, but farther to the left there is a crossover, and the dissociated
state becomes the most stable. This type of behavior is quite general. In
Fig. 13, a similar comparison for NO and adsorbed N  O is shown. The
situation is the same, except that the crossover is farther to the right (56).
For each of the simple molecular adsorbates there is such a crossover
between atomic and molecular adsorption somewhere in the group of transi-
tion metals, as illustrated by the experimental results collected by Broden
FIG. 13.
(Left) Calculated (PW91) and model estimates of the variation in the adsorption
energy of molecular CO compared to atomically adsorbed C and O for the most close-packed
surface of the 4d transition metals. (Right) Calculated (PW91) molecular and dissociative
chemisorption of NO. Solid symbols are DFT calculations; open symbols are Newns–Anderson
model calculations. For CO, dissociative chemisorption appears to the left of rhodium. For
NO, dissociative chemisorption appears farther to the right, i.e., also on rhodium.
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
91
et al. (57) (Fig. 14). The crossover point depends on the transition metal
row—the 5d’s tend to cause molecular dissociation less willingly than the
4d’s and 3d’s. The origin of this effect is the increase in nobleness from the
3d’s to the 4d’s and 5d’s discussed previously. The crossover also depends on
the molecule adsorbed, as reﬂected largely by the variations in atomic
adsorption energies.
The above description of the bonding of molecules to surfaces is readily
extended to even larger and more complicated molecules (58, 59). In Fig.
15, the analysis of Pallassana and Neurock (58) of the interaction between
ethylene and a Pt(111) surface is shown.
C.
ADSORBATE–ADSORBATE INTERACTIONS
So far, we have mostly considered trends in adsorption energies for a
ﬁxed surface coverage. The surface coverage of reactants, intermediates,
and products on a catalyst can vary signiﬁcantly depending on reaction
FIG. 14.
Compilation of experimental data for the ability of transition metals to adsorb
and dissociate CO, N2, and NO molecules. M, molecular adsorption; D, dissociative adsorption.
Adapted from Broden et al. (57).
92
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 15.
Illustration of the interaction between C2H2 and a Pd(111) surface. From
Pallassana and Neurock (58).
conditions, and often the coverages are so large that adsorbate–adsorbate
interactions are signiﬁcant and should be included in the description. In
fact, these interactions are often so large that a variation in the coverage
can change the state of the surface more than the variation from one metal
to the next in the periodic table.
As an example of a calculated coverage dependence, consider in Fig. 16
the nitrogen adsorption energy as a function of nitrogen atom coverage on
various iron surfaces (60). The results illustrate that interactions can be
both attractive and repulsive. The former leads to island formation at low
coverages (and temperatures); even at relatively low coverages, adsorbates
prefer to cluster together to take advantage of the attractive interaction.
Such effects have been observed for the N/Fe(100) system (61), as suggested
by the results shown in Fig. 16. Repulsive interactions do not lead to island
formation but instead to dispersed overlayers and a strongly coverage-
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
93
FIG. 16.
Adsorption energies (PW91) for dissociated N2 on bcc-iron as a function of
coverage. The squares correspond to (1  1), c(2  2), and (2  2)–N/Fe(100) structures;
the triangles represent (1  1) and (3  3)R30	–N/Fe(111) structures; and the circles
represent (1  1) and (2  2)–N/(110) structures. From Mortensen et al. (60).
dependent heat of adsorption. Although attractive interactions are often
quite weak and depend on the details of the system, repulsive interactions
are very common, particularly at high coverages (62–64). They are often
observed experimentally as a strong decrease in the heat of adsorption with
coverage, as for example in the calorimetric results reported by Brown et
al. (34) (Fig. 17).
The attractive interactions are usually dependent on details in the elec-
tronic structure. Attraction may also be a result of reconstructions of the
surface. Consider for example the N/Fe system of Fig. 16. It is evident that
the nitrogen atoms strongly prefer the local geometry provided by the
Fe(100) surface relative to the two other low-index surfaces. The nitrogen
atoms may therefore prefer to completely restructure the (110) or (111)
surfaces to obtain a similar local geometry. For such a major restructuring
to occur, an island of a certain size is needed in order for the reconstruction
to be stable, and the result may be an effective attractive interaction between
the nitrogen atoms mediated by the reconstruction on these surfaces, even
though the intrinsic N–N interaction is strongly repulsive.
There are four common causes for interactions between like adsorbates:
1. Direct interactions due to overlap of wavefunctions: Direct overlap
between adsorbate states may lead to attraction if there are states close
94
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 17.
The measured differential heat of adsorption of NO on Pd(100) as a function of
coverage. Reprinted with permission from Brown et al. (34) 1998 American Chemical
Society.
enough to the Fermi level that the interaction can shift states through the
Fermi level. This is often not the case, and the interaction is then dominated
by the Pauli repulsion. The detailed analysis of O–O interactions on a
Pt(100) surface by Ge and King (65) illustrates this effect in detail (Fig. 18).
2. Indirect interactions: One adsorbate may change the electronic struc-
ture of the surface in such a way that the adsorption energy of a second
adsorbate is changed. One commonly observed effect is that adsorption
leads to a downshift of the d states of the neighboring transition metal
atoms (47, 66). As shown previously, a downshift of the d states usually
leads to a weaker interaction with an adsorbate. This means that a second
adsorbate trying to bond to the same transition metal atoms as the ﬁrst
may be bound less strongly. This effect is discussed later.
3. Elastic interactions: Adsorption usually leads to local distortions of
the surface lattice. This distortion is experienced by other adsorbates as a
repulsion (67, 68).
4. Nonlocal electrostatic effects: These can, to lowest order, be described
as dipole–dipole interactions.
In addition to interactions with other adsorbates of the same kind, interac-
tions with other kinds of adsorbates may also be important. We return to
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
95
FIG. 18.
Charge density contours for oxygen-induced states 5 or 6 eV below the Fermi
level on Pt(100). For adsorption in the fourfold sites, in which the O–O repulsion is large,
the oxygen p-like states are seen to overlap substantially more than for oxygen atoms in the
twofold sites, in which the repulsion is weaker. From Ge et al. (65).
this topic in connection with our discussion of poisoning and promotion in
Section V.C.
The strong coverage dependence of adsorption energies profoundly af-
fects the reactivity of a surface. A more weakly bound adsorbate may be
more reactive, and changing the reaction conditions (temperature and/or
partial pressures) can therefore change the reactivity considerably. This
has recently been exploited by Bradlay et al. (69) to suggest new reaction
conditions for the ammonia oxidation on platinum catalysts.
96
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
IV.
Bond-Making and -Breaking at a Surface
We now discuss the question of how to describe reactions at surfaces.
Any chemical reaction can be described as a transition between two local
minima on the potential energy surface of the system as a function of the
coordinates of all the involved atoms. The reaction path we deﬁne as the
minimum energy path leading from the reactant minimum to the product
minimum. The saddle point on this path deﬁnes the transition state, and
the energy difference between the saddle point and the reactant minimum
is the activation energy (Ea) of an elementary process. Figure 19 illustrates
a potential energy surface in two important degrees of freedom for a
dissociative adsorption process (or, equivalently, a recombinative desorp-
tion process). Figure 19 also shows the minimum energy path as well as
the usual one-dimensional representation of such a reaction, in which the
energy is shown as a function of the distance along the reaction path (the
reaction coordinate). We stress that in general there are not just a few
degrees of freedom taking part in the reaction. Usually, several of the
adsorbate degrees of freedom are important, and there are cases for which
deformation of the surface is also an important part of the reaction (47, 70).
FIG. 19.
(a) The potential energy surface (RPBE) for N2 dissociating on a Ru(0001)
surface. The energy zero is a molecule far from the surface. The adsorption geometry is shown
in the inset. The distance of the center of mass of the molecule above the surface, Z, and
the N–N bond length, d, are varied. The minimum energy path is indicated, and in (b) the
energy along the path is shown. Note that here only two degrees of freedom have been
included. When the rest are included, the minimum energy path has a lower energy barrier
(Fig. 34). Adapted from Murphy et al. (71).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
97
The rate of an elementary step is given in general by an Arrhenius
expression such as
r  
eEa/kT,
(1)
where Ea is the activation energy, k is Boltzmann’s constant, and T is the
temperature. The prefactor 
 is also given by the properties of the potential
energy surface. We do not discuss this aspect but refer, for example, to the
review by Van Santen and Neurock (54). We also note that the modeling of
particular experiments, e.g., molecular beam and state-resolved desorption
studies, may require that the dynamics of a surface reaction be considered.
For a further discussion of this topic, see recent reviews by Darling and
Holloway (72), Groß (73), and Kroes (74). In the following sections, we
concentrate on the factors controlling the activation energy. We show that
trends in activation energies can be understood by using the same concepts
developed previously to understand atomic and molecular adsorption en-
ergies.
A.
THE REACTION PATH AND THE NATURE OF THE TRANSITION STATE
In Fig. 20, the transition states of some elementary reaction steps on
close-packed surface of transition metals are shown. Two types of reaction
FIG. 20.
Transition states for some dissociation reactions of small molecules on transition
metal surfaces. The geometries are taken from Hammer (84) (NO/Ru), Dahl et al. (83)
(N2/Ru), Mavrikakis et al. (14) (CO/Ru), Hammer et al. (32) (H2/Cu), and Kratzer et al. (86)
(CH4/Ni).
98
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
paths can be observed. For the dissociation of diatomics such as CO,
NO, and N2, the transition state is a highly stretched molecule (75–78).
One of the atoms is already close to the ﬁnal, threefold-coordinated site,
whereas the other is on its way to the nearest similar (fcc or hcp) site.
At the transition state it is more or less in a twofold coordination site
corresponding to the top of the barrier for diffusion of one of the atoms.
The same is true for the transition state of, e.g., the CO  O reaction (or,
equivalently, the CO2 dissociation) (79–81) and for C–C bond breaking or
formation (82).
The other type of path shown in Fig. 20 is one in which the transition
state is much less stretched. This type of reaction is characterized by an
initial state with a very short bond (typically involving hydrogen), and the
stretched transition state observed for the ‘‘longer bonds’’ is well beyond
the point at which the bond is broken.
The electronic structure at the transition state reﬂects the two different
kinds of reaction paths. For ‘‘short’’ transition states, such as for H2 dissocia-
tion, the transition state has bonding and antibonding states, as in the
molecule (Fig. 21). Clearly, the interaction of these states with the surface
electrons can be thought of in the same way as for the atomic and molecular
adsorbates. The coupling to the metal s electrons gives rise to a broadening,
and the coupling to the transition metal d electrons gives rise to bonding
and antibonding states. Just as for CO adsorption, the adsorbate states of
different symmetry (the bonding g and the antibonding u H2 states) can
be treated independently.
For the ‘‘stretched’’ transition states, the electronic structure of the transi-
tion state is much more like that of the adsorbed atoms than that of the
FIG. 21.
The DOS projected onto g and *
u for H2 in the dissociation transition state on
Cu(111), Ni(111), and Au(111), and Pt(111) surfaces. From Hammer and Nørskov (40).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
99
adsorbed molecule. This is illustrated in Fig. 22, in which the density of
states projected onto the two nitrogen atoms in the transition state for N2
dissociation on Ru(0001) is shown. Becuase of the highly stretched N–N
bond length in the transition state (1.9 A
˚ ), the electronic structure of the
molecule is very ﬁnal state-like. The distinct splitting of the nitrogen 2p
states into 2u, 1v, 3g, and 1g molecular-like states for adsorbed N2
(not shown) is thus disappeared in the transition state.
B.
VARIATIONS IN REACTIVITY FROM ONE METAL TO THE NEXT
Since the electronic structure is understandable in the same language as
that developed to describe atomic and molecular adsorption, the variation
in the energy of the transition states—or, equivalently, the activation barri-
ers—follows along the same lines.
Consider as the ﬁrst example the H2 dissociation on copper, nickel, gold,
and platinum. The energy along the reaction path is shown in Fig. 23. In
agreement with experimental knowledge, nickel and platinum each has a
low barrier and dissociates H2 readily (87, 88), whereas copper has a sizable
barrier (89) and H2 dissociation is impossible on gold (90). Just as for the
adsorption cases discussed previously, there are two effects involved. Nickel
and platinum are more reactive than copper and gold, mostly because more
bonding states between the initially empty antibonding H2 state and the
metal d states are shifted below the Fermi level. Again, the general rule
is that the higher the d band center, the more reactive the metal (that is,
the lower the transition state energy) (46, 45, 91).
FIG. 22.
DOS projected onto 2p orbitals of the two nitrogen atoms in the transition states
for N2 dissociation on Ru(0001). One atom is close to an hcp site and one close to a bridge
site. Both DOS are compared with the DOS projected onto the 2p orbitals of a nitrogen
atom absorbed at an hcp site (dashed lines). From Mortenson et al. (47).
100
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 23.
The potential energy (PW91) along the atop reaction path for H2 dissociating on
copper, nickel, gold, and platinum. Z is the H2 height above the plane of the surface atomic
position. From Hammer and Nørskov (46). Reprinted by permission from Nature (46) 1995
Macmillan Magazines Ltd.
Gold (and to a lesser extend platinum) is less reactive than copper (or
nickel) because the Pauli repulsion is larger for the 5d metals than for the
3d metals, just as discussed previously for atomic adsorbates. The dissocia-
tion of H2 on rhodium, palladium, silver, and tungsten surfaces has been
investigated with DFT methods, with the results being consistent with the
current picture (91–95).
The picture is even simpler for the streched transition states. Since they
are very ﬁnal state-like, the variations in the transition state energies closely
follow the variations in the adsorption energies of the products, as illustrated
in Fig. 24.
The strong coupling between transition state energies and ﬁnal state
energies has as an important consequence, namely, that the search for the
perfect transition metal to catalyze a certain reaction is always a compro-
mise. Moving to the left in the transition metal series gives a lower activation
energy but also stronger bonding of the reactants and thus less free surface
area. The ‘‘Sabatier principle’’-type behavior usually leads to ‘‘volcano
curves’’ describing the relation between catalytic activity and position in
the periodic table (2).
For the ‘‘late’’ barrier processes, the transition state energy is consider-
ably higher than the ﬁnal state energy for two reasons: (i) In the transition
state, one of the atoms is in the twofold site, which is higher in energy than
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
101
FIG. 24.
The variation in energy (PW91) of the initial, transition, and ﬁnal state for NO
adsorption on the tcc(111) surfaces of the 4d transition metals Ru, Rh, and Pd. The correlation
between the transition and ﬁnal state energies is clearly evident. Data from Mavrikakis et al.
(75) and Hammer (84, 110).
the equilibrium threefold site, and (ii) the two dissociating atoms share two
surface metal atoms in the transition state, giving rise to a large repulsion.
V.
Changing the Reactivity
In the preceding sections, we discussed variations in the stability of
adsorbed atoms and molecules or of the transition state complex for surface
chemical reactions from one metal to the next. Here, we focus on even
more subtle variations in reactivity. Often, the reactivity of a given metal
can be changed substantially by changing the surface structure, by alloying,
or by introducing additional adsorbates onto the surface. In the following
sections, we discuss each of these cases separately and show that the under-
lying mechanisms responsible for the variations in reactivity are the same.
A.
STRUCTURE SENSITIVITY
The chemisorption and reaction properties of a metal surface depend
on the electronic as well as the geometric structures of the surface. Although
the electronic and geometric structures of a surface usually cannot be varied
independently, it is very useful to consider the two as causing independent
effects on the reactivity of a surface. The two effects are usually termed
102
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
‘‘electronic’’ and ‘‘geometric’’ effects. The electronic effects originate from
the local electronic structure of the surface and are given by the one-
electron spectrum of the metal states that interact with the adsorbates. In
most cases, in continuation of the previous discussion, the local average of
the d electron energies, d, sufﬁces to describe the electronic effect.
The geometric effect is ‘‘the rest,’’ so to speak. If adsorbates or reaction
complexes interact in different geometric arrangements with surface atoms
with identical local electronic properties, the differences in chemisorption
bonds and energy barrier heights are ascribed to the differences in the
bonding geometry. The simplest measure of the geometric effect is thus
the coordination number of the adsorbate with respect to the surface atoms.
1.
Strain
We start by considering a transition metal surface subject to strain. The
geometric arrangement of the surface atoms changes only slightly when
the interatomic distances parallel to the surface are modiﬁed. Threefold
adsorption sites, for example, are still threefold adsorption sites (only the
bond lengths have changed), and an adsorbate may compensate for this
change by relaxing in the direction perpendicular to the surface. Studying
surface processes as a function of strain therefore offers a means of evaluat-
ing the magnitude of the electronic effect.
When a surface undergoes compressive or tensile strain, the overlap of
metal d states at neighboring sites will either increase or decrease and so
will the d bandwidths. It is a general ﬁnding of our density functional
calculations that no charging or decharging of the d states of late transition
metal sites follows from a change in d bandwidth. Rather, the d bands
move in energy to maintain a constant ﬁlling. Compressive or tensile strain
therefore leads to downshifts and upshifts of the d band centers, respec-
tively. The effect is illustrated in Fig. 25.
Figure 26 illustrates two ways in which strained surfaces can be realized
experimentally in connection with single-crystal surfaces. Gsell et al. (96)
modiﬁed a ruthenium surface through ion implantation by a noble gas.
This treatment causes regions of the surface to buckle out. The middle of
these regions is subject to tensile strain, whereas the periphery of the regions
is subject to compressive strain. Another experimental possibility involves
evaporation of one metal onto another (97–102). By choosing combinations
of metals that give pseudomorphic growth of a monolayer of one metal on
the other, highly strained surfaces of the one metal can be realized. Both
of these strained metals are easily modeled by DFT calculations—either
as slabs under uniform lateral strain or as ‘‘sandwich slabs’’ of one metal
on another with the surface unit cell area determined by the substrate
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
103
FIG. 25.
Illustration of the effect of tensile strain on the d band center. Increasing the
lattice constant shrinks the band width, and, to keep the number of d electrons ﬁxed, the d
states have to move up in energy.
FIG. 26.
Two ways of inducing strain on a single-crystal surface: (a) by Ar bubbles; (b)
by the growth of strained pseudomorphic overlayers. Dark circles indicate adsorbates bound
in regions of tensile strain.
104
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
metal. A third possibility involves characterization of dislocations ending
at the surface (103).
Figure 27 shows the DFT results for adsorption and dissociation of CO
on strained Ru(0001). The chemisorption potential energies and reaction
energy barriers are plotted versus the d band center. A clear correlation
between the chemisorption energies or energy barriers and the d band
center is established. This correlation can be understood by comparison
with the model calculation in Fig. 4. Here it was found that the higher the
energy of the d bands, the more likely antibonding metal d adsorbate states
are to be pushed above the Fermi level and the more likely the metal
d–adsorbate interaction is to become net attractive.
The strain effect is not limited to CO adsorption and dissociation on
ruthenium. Figure 28 shows the activation energy for N2 dissociation on
hexagonally close-packed iron surfaces with different lattice constants.
Again, large lattice constants with high-lying d states are the most reactive.
FIG. 27.
Calculated (PW91) variation in the adsorption energy of CO, the adsorption
energy of atomic oxygen, and the energy barriers for CO dissociation on a Ru(0001) surface
for different lattice constants. The variations in energy are shown to be correlated with the
variations in the d band center d. Adapted from Mavrikakis et al. (14).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
105
FIG. 28.
Variation in the energy barrier for N2 dissociation on a close-packed fcc–Fe(111)
surface as a function of the nearest-neighbor separation in the surface. Also included is the
result for a single layer of iron on Ru(0001). This point is placed at the equivalent ruthenium
nearest-neighbor separation. The fact that it falls in line with the other points suggests that the
main effect of the ruthenium substrate is to stretch the iron overlayer. From Logadottir (104).
Furthermore, one point corresponding to a monolayer of iron on Ru(0001)
is included. It can be seen that the effect is the same and that the Fe/
Ru(0001) point falls in line with the general trends. This result shows that
in this case the main effect of the ruthenium is to increase the iron lattice
constant. One would get the same result even without the ruthenium under-
neath.
Additional examples are shown in Fig. 29. Here, results from Pallassana
and Neurock (58) for the activation energy for dehydrogenation of ethylene
and of ethyl on different palladium overlayers are shown. Palladium on
gold is more reactive than pure palladium because the gold lattice constant
is larger than the palladium lattice constant and vice versa for ruthenium.
The palladium/rhenium result represents an exception to the general rule
that the main effect of the substrate is to change the lattice constant of the
overlayer. The two metals have essentially the same lattice constant, but
the palladium overlayer is less reactive than pure palladium. We note,
however, that the shift in d does capture the correct trend. In this case,
the shift must be caused primarily by the interaction between the electrons
in the palladium overlayer and the rhenium atoms underneath. We there-
fore conclude this section by noting that the reactivity scales very well with
shifts in d for both strained crystals and overlayers.
For nanosized supported catalysts, not just overlayers of one metal on
another can have a changed reactivity due to strain. Small metal particles
on an oxide support may also have a lattice constant (and thus a reactivity)
106
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 29.
Variations in the transition state energy for dehydrogenation of ethylene and of
ethyl on Pd(111) and on palladium overlayers on various other metals. The variations in
activation energy correlate well with the variations in the d band centers for the surface
palladium atoms. From Pallassana and Neurock (58).
different from that of a large facet. Two factors play a role: (i) the surface
tension and (ii) the interaction with the support. The former usually tends
to decrease the lattice constant, whereas the latter may both increase and
decrease the lattice constant. There are many examples in which lattice
constants different from the bulk value have been observed for supported
metal nanoparticles (105–107), and we expect this to be a very general
phenomenon. Both the surface tension effect and the strain induced by the
oxide support will be most important for very small particles, and the effect
will decrease with increasing particle size.
2.
Different Facets
When comparing the reactivities of different surface facets [e.g., fcc(111)
and fcc(100)], both the electronic and the ion structure change. The change
of the electronic structure is a consequence of the change of the ionic
structure. We maintain, however, the strict division into electronic and
geometric effects.
If an adsorption or reaction conﬁguration is sufﬁciently simple, it is
sometimes possible to disentangle the electronic and geometric effects,
even when comparing different facets. Figure 30 shows examples of this:
an atop bonding of CO on a range of platinum surfaces (108) and an H2
transition state complex on two different copper surfaces (109). Because
the local chemisorption conﬁguration of CO is the same on all platinum
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
107
FIG. 30.
Different ways of changing the adsorption or reaction geometry while not changing
the local geometry. The chemisorbed CO and the H2 transition state complex are probing
the local electronic structure effects.
surfaces in Fig. 30, the variations in the CO chemisorption potential en-
ergy must be ascribed primarily to the electronic effects (although second-
neighbor effects may also be of some importance). Likewise, because the
H2 reaction geometry (over the atop site into bridge sites) is the same on
the two copper surfaces considered, the variations in the H2 dissociation
energy barriers must be ascribed to the changes in the electronic structure
between the facets. The correlation of the CO chemisorption energy and
H2 dissociation energy barrier with our parameter for the electronic effect,
the local center of the metal d states, is presented in Fig. 31, which shows
that when the adsorption or reaction geometry is kept ﬁxed, the effect of
the facet is well described by the d band center.
The magnitude of the geometric effect can be estimated by allowing the
108
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 31.
(Left) Calculated variations in the chemisorption energy (PW91) for CO adsorbed
atop platinum atoms in different surroundings. (Right) DFT energy barriers (PW91) for
dissociative adsorption of H2 atop copper atoms in two different copper surfaces. The correla-
tion between chemisorption energy and the d band center for the relevant platinum atoms
is evident. Adapted from Hammer et al. (108) and Kratzer et al. (109).
adsorbate or transition state complex to exploit all available ionic degrees
of freedom in the bond formation rather than restricting the geometry as
was done previously. For the H2 dissociation, new optimum transition state
complexes result on the different copper surfaces. These are shown in Fig.
32. On Cu(100), a tilted conﬁguration of the H2 transition state complex
is found in which a hydrogen atom is almost in a fourfold hollow site (33).
On Cu(111), the H2 axis is parallel to the surface and both hydrogen atoms
are in threefold-like positions. The transition state potential energies are
reduced by 0.14 and 0.03 eV for Cu(111) and Cu(100), respectively, com-
FIG. 32.
The calculated transition states and (PW91) energy barriers (in eV) for H2 dissocia-
tion on Cu(100) and Cu(111). Both the transition state for the atop path used to probe the
electronic effect and the optimum energy path are shown. Adapted from Kratzer et al. (109).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
109
pared with the values obtained by using the restricted transition state con-
ﬁgurations of Fig. 30. The difference, 0.11 eV, is thus a measure of the
geometric effect for H2 dissociation on a low-index copper surface.
3.
Steps and Defects
When considering high-Miller-index surfaces with steps and kinks, or
surfaces with other defects such as adatoms or vacancies, the variations in
the electronic structure become larger (i.e., d varies more). Again, the
smaller the metal coordination number of the surface atom, the smaller
the d band width and hence the higher energy of the d band center (if the
d band is more than half ﬁlled). The electronic effect is completely analogous
to what we have previously demonstrated. This may be seen from Fig. 31,
in which the CO bonding to step and kink platinum atoms is also included.
The electronic effect may become so large at the step edges of metal
surfaces that it can change the site preference of atomic adsorbates. For
example, on a ﬂat Ru(0001) surface, an oxygen atom prefers threefold
bonding at an hcp site by 0.54 eV over twofold bonding at a bridge site.
On Ru(0001), all ruthenium atoms have the same d band center, and
therefore the site preference is a purely geometrical effect, originating
from the change in coupling matrix element, adsorbate coordination, and
nonlocal electrostatic effects caused by the change in adsorption site. On
a monoatomic step on Ru(0001), however, the oxygen is as stable (within
the calculational accuracy) in a hang-off-the-edge, twofold bonding conﬁg-
uration at the step edge as at an hcp threefold site behind the step edge, and
it is preferred in the hang-off-the-edge conﬁguration over the fcc threefold
conﬁguration by 0.27 eV. The conﬁgurations are depicted in Fig. 33 (110).
The reason for the change in site preference from threefold at Ru(0001)
to twofold at a monoatomic step can (with our division) be ascribed to the
electronic effect (i.e., the ﬁnding that at the step edge the lower coordination
of the surface atoms leads to energetically higher d bands and hence to
higher reactivity). Similar effects have been observed, for example, by
Feibelman et al. (111) for the O/Pt(111) system.
The electronic effect at steps is quite general. In addition to the examples
stated previously, it has been shown in calculations that steps increase the
stability of NO, N, and O on palladium (38, 66) and of N2 on platinum
(112) and that they lower the barrier for CH4 dissociation on nickel (113),
increase the stability of various C2Hx species on platinum, and lower the
barriers for C–H and C–C bond breaking on the same surfaces (82).
The geometric effect, however, may also become more prominent at a
step edge. This has been illustrated in two recent studies of activation of
NO and N2 at monoatomic steps on Ru(0001) (83, 84). It was found that
110
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 33.
Chemisorption of oxygen on a ﬂat and stepped Ru(0001) surface. The chemisorp-
tion potential energy is given in eV. On the ﬂat Ru(0001) surface threefold hcp chemisorption
(h) is highly preferred over twofold bridge chemisorption (b). At the step edges, hcp chemisorp-
tion (h1) is comparable to bridge chemisorption (1) for one-step geometry (step I), and
bridge chemisorption (2) even becomes preferred over fcc chemisorption (f1) at the other
step geometry (step II). Adapted from Hammer (110).
the N–O and N–N bond activation barriers almost vanish for a reaction
geometry in which the molecules initially are positioned at the base of the
step. The effect is too large to be ascribed solely to the electronic effect
at the step edge, the size of which is known from the NO and N2 dissociation
in conﬁgurations at the top of the step edges. Rather, a stabilization of the
transition state complex on the order of 0.3 eV must be explained as
originating from the geometric effect. In Fig. 34, the NO and N2 transition
state complexes are shown for reaction on ﬂat and stepped Ru(0001), and
the potential energy diagram is given for N2. The NO and N2 are seen to
coordinate to ﬁve ruthenium atoms in the highly reactive conﬁgurations at
the base of the step edges, whereas they coordinate to only four ruthenium
atoms on ﬂat Ru(0001). The coordination to more ruthenium atoms at the
step increases the total coupling matrix element between metal d states and
adsorbate valence states. Simultaneously, the indirect repulsion between the
reaction products (the chemisorbed nitrogen and oxygen atoms) is reduced
(see Section III.C).
There is extensive experimental evidence that bonding is stronger at
steps than at facets (2, 114, 115). The generality of the effect suggests that
it may even be more important than has been realized. In the case of NO
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
111
FIG. 34.
(Top) Transition state geometries and corresponding energies (PW91) for NO
dissociation on Ru(0001) terraces and steps. (Bottom) Reaction path and energies (RPBE)
for N2 dissociation on the same surface. Again, both a terrace and a step conﬁguration have
been considered. In both cases the energy zero is the molecule far from the surface. Adapted
from Dahl et al. (83) and Hammer (84).
dissociation on Ru(0001) steps, it has been shown by direct observation
of the dissociation products by scanning tunneling microscopy that the
dissociation occurs primarily at steps (116). In the case of N2 dissociation
on Ru(0001), the reactivity of the steps is so much greater than that of the
terraces that even the few steps present on any single-crystal surface (on
the order of 1%) are enough to completely dominate the experiments. In
this case, it was the large barrier found in the calculations that led to the
discovery that the experiments were actually not measuring the reactivity
of the terrace atoms (83, 117).
Traditionally, reactions in heterogeneous catalysis have been divided
112
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
into structure-sensitive and structure-insensitive reactions, depending on
whether the reaction rate depends on particle size (118–120). A particle-
size-dependent activity is usually a simple consequence of the structure
dependence discussed previously. For small catalyst particles, the ratio of
the different facets and the density of steps and other defects will be strongly
dependent on particle size. Such structure sensitivity, however, may also be
a consequence, for example, of the strain effect discussed in Section V.A.1.
B.
ALLOYING
Another way of changing the reactivity is through alloying. The addition
of one or more chemical elements to a metallic surface increases the possible
bonding geometries of adsorbates and reaction complexes and simultane-
ously changes the electronic structure of the alloy surface from that of the
pure metallic surface alone. The effect of alloying may also be more indirect,
however, if, for example, one of the alloy elements segregates to the surface.
In this case, effects such as strain in the surface due to a difference in bulk
lattice parameters of the alloy and its elemental components can be used
to understand the effect of alloying (see Section V.A.1).
The reactivities of many alloy surfaces have been studied by density
functional theory. H2 dissociation, which is nonactivated on Ni(111), was
found to experience large energy barriers—even on nickel sites—on
NiAl(110), and the increased repulsion can be assigned the electronic effect
and traced to a downshift of the nickel d bands in the alloy (45, 121).
Similarly, the platinum sites in a Cu3Pt(111) surface were found to be more
reactive with respect to H2 bond activation than platinum sites in the Pt(111)
surface, and again it is an electronic effect originating from an upshift of
the platinum d bands on alloying (45).
An interesting type of alloy, Au/Ni, was investigated by Kratzer et al. (86)
for its ability to dehydrogenate methane. Gold and nickel are immiscible in
the bulk, but a two-dimensional (2-D) surface alloy exists in which gold
alloys into the outermost layers of a Ni(111) crystal (Fig. 35). The alloy is
interesting from a synthesis point of view because the gold does not dissolve
into the nickel bulk, which implies that only small traces of gold are required
to create the alloy (122, 123). The gold is inert for methane decomposition,
and because the gold causes a downshift of the nickel d bands at neighboring
sites, the ability of the alloy to catalyze the C–H bond activation is slightly
inferior to that of the clean Ni(111) (Fig. 36). A nickel-based catalyst,
however, suffers from carbon deposition (growth of carbon whiskers) during
operation (124). Due to the electronic effect, carbon is found to bond
less favorably to the Au/Ni(111) surface than to the Ni(111) surface. The
inhibition of the carbon formation process is often more important than a
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
113
FIG. 35.
Two STM images of a Ni(111) surface with 2% (A) and 7% (B) of a monolayer
of gold. The gold atoms appear black in the images. The nickel atoms next to the gold atoms
appear brighter due to a change in geometry and electronic structure, indicating that the
chemical reactivity of the nickel atoms may be modiﬁed by nearest-neighbor gold atoms.
Reprinted with permission from Besenbacher et al. Science 279, 1913 (1998). Copyright 1998
American Association for the Advancement of Science.
high reactivity with respect to the primary reaction channel, the methane
decomposition. On the basis of DFT studies it was therefore suggested that
the 2-D alloy of Au/Ni would be a better catalyst for methane dehydrogena-
tion. Subsequent synthesis of an Au/Ni catalyst has shown this to be true
(Fig. 37) (122).
114
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 36.
Illustration of the calculated minimum energy path (reaction coordinate, in A
˚ )
for the CH4 dissociation on a Ni(111) surface. The energy (PW91) among the path is shown
below. The shift in the barrier for dissociation when one or two gold atoms are nearest
neighbors to the nickel atom under the dissociating CH4 molecule is also included. Adapted
from Holmblad et al. (123).
FIG. 37.
Conversion of n-butane as a function of time (in seconds) during steam reforming
in a 3% n-butane/7% hydrogen/3% water in helium mixture at a space velocity of 1.2 h1.
The dashed curve shows the n-butane conversion for the nickel and the solid curve is for the
gold/nickel supported catalyst. Reprinted with permission from Besenbacher et al. Science
279, 1913 (1998). Copyright 1998 American Association for the Advancement of Science.
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
115
Several DFT calculations have been reported that show the effect of
alloying on adsorption and reactions. Delbecq and Sautet (125, 126) investi-
gated the bonding of CO and of NO on surfaces of Pd3Mn alloys. Pallassana
et al. (127) also investigated the effect of alloying on hydrogen chemisorp-
tion on Pd–Re alloys and found that the adsorption energy varies with the
average d band center, as has been previously determined.
The strong correlation between d and bond energies and activation
barriers makes it interesting to have an overview of the way the d band
centers change when one metal forms a monolayer on top of (or is alloyed
into) the ﬁrst layer of another metal. These shifts can be calculated by
using the DFT, and Table II summarizes results for many combinations of
catalytically interesting metals (128). We stress that the results are for
TABLE II
Shifts in d Band Centers of Surface Impurities and Overlayers Relative to the Clean Metal
Values (Bold)a
Fe
Co
Ni
Cu
Ru
Rh
Pd
Ag
Ir
Pt
Au
Fe
0.92
0.05
0.20
0.13
0.29
0.54
1.24
0.83
0.36
1.09
1.42
0.14
0.04
0.05
0.73
0.72
1.32
1.25
0.95
1.48
2.19
Co
0.01
1.17
0.28
0.16
0.24
0.58
1.37
0.91
0.36
1.19
1.56
0.01
0.20
0.06
0.70
0.95
1.65
1.36
1.09
1.89
2.39
Ni
0.09
0.19
1.29
0.19
0.14
0.31
0.97
0.53
0.14
0.80
1.13
0.96
0.11
0.12
0.63
0.74
1.32
1.14
0.86
1.53
2.10
Cu
0.56
0.60
0.27
2.67
0.58
0.32
0.64
0.70
0.58
0.33
1.09
0.25
0.38
0.18
0.22
0.27
1.04
1.21
0.32
1.15
1.96
Ru
0.21
0.26
0.01
0.12
1.41
0.17
0.82
0.27
0.02
0.62
0.84
0.30
0.37
0.29
0.30
0.12
0.47
0.40
0.13
0.61
0.86
Rh
0.24
0.34
0.16
0.44
0.04
1.73
0.54
0.07
0.17
0.35
0.49
0.31
0.41
0.34
0.22
0.03
0.39
0.08
0.03
0.45
0.57
Pd
0.37
0.54
0.50
0.94
0.24
0.36
1.83
0.59
0.53
0.19
0.17
0.36
0.54
0.54
0.80
0.11
0.25
0.15
0.31
0.04
0.14
Ag
0.72
0.84
0.67
0.47
0.84
0.86
0.14
4.30
1.14
0.50
0.15
0.55
0.74
0.68
0.62
0.50
0.67
0.27
0.80
0.37
0.21
Ir
0.21
0.27
0.05
0.21
0.09
0.15
0.73
0.13
2.11
0.56
0.74
0.33
0.40
0.33
0.56
0.01
0.03
0.42
0.09
0.49
0.59
Pt
0.33
0.48
0.40
0.72
0.14
0.23
0.17
0.44
0.38
2.25
0.05
0.35
0.53
0.54
0.78
0.12
0.24
0.02
0.19
0.29
0.08
Au
0.63
0.77
0.63
0.55
0.70
0.75
0.17
0.21
0.98
0.46
3.56
0.53
0.74
0.71
0.70
0.47
0.67
0.35
0.12
0.79
0.43
a The impurity/overlayer atoms are listed horizontally, and the host entries are listed vertically.
For each combination, the ﬁrst of the two numbers listed represents the isolated surface impurity
and the second the overlayer. The surfaces considered are the most close packed, and the overlayer
structures are pseudomorphic. No relaxations from the host lattice positions are included. All values
are in eV, and the elemental d band centers are relative to the Fermi level. From Ruban et al. (128).
116
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
overlayers and surface impurities occupying lattice positions of the sub-
strate, and we have not taken into account here whether these structures
are actually stable under experimental conditions. However, Table II can
provide an idea about possible ways of modifying the electronic structure
of a surface.
Consider for example the case of platinum on Au(111). According to
the results of Table II, both platinum overlayers and platinum impurities
in a Au(111) surface have higher-lying d states than platinum atoms in a
Pt(111) surface and should therefore bind adsorbates more strongly and
have lower transition state energies. We note that this may still lead to
higher activation barriers for certain elementary steps if the initial state
for this step is stabilized more than the transition state. The somewhat
counterintuitive prediction that gold should increase the reactivity of plati-
num has been tested experimentally (102). In Fig. 38, it is clearly shown
that CO is bonded more strongly to a monolayer of platinum on Au(111)
than to Pt(111), in accordance with the prediction from Table II. The
FIG. 38.
CO thermal desorption spectra for different coverages of platinum Au(111). The
spectrum for the clean Pt(111) surface is shown for comparison. Approximately one monolayer
of platinum on the Au(111) surface is shown to bind CO more strongly (with a higher
desorption temperature) than the clean Pt(111) surface. Reprinted from Pedersen et al. (102).
Copyright 1999 with permission from Elsevier Science.
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
117
experimental results also show that platinum impurities do not bind CO
as strongly as Pt(111). This would not be expected from Table II. This
discrepancy can be traced to contributions to the bonding from second-
nearest neighbors in the surface (102), and the example shows that one must
be careful in using Table II when the second-nearest neighbors signiﬁcantly
change the reactivity. In the current case, platinum and gold are so different
that even though only about 10% of the bonding comes from the second
neighbors, it is enough to be important. This problem does not occur when
pseudomorphic overlayers are considered.
It is known from several theoretical investigations that the variation in
the center of the d bands for metal overlayers is accompanied by a similar
variation in the surface core level shifts—at least toward the right in the
transition metal series (129–131). It has also been shown that the trends in
variations in the surface core level shifts for different overlayers are often
given by the initial state shift, i.e., by the changes in the electronic structure
of the unperturbed surface. Therefore, we conclude that we can view the
variation in the surface core level shifts as a measure of the variation in
the d band center. This is fortuitous because it means that in the surface
core level shifts there is an in situ experimental measure of the valence d
band center shifts that are important for the chemical properties of metal
surfaces, as discussed previously. As an outstanding example of the informa-
tion carried by the surface core level shifts, Rodriguez and Goodman (97),
in their detailed studies of metallic overlayers, observed a strong correlation
between the surface core level shift of such overlayers and the CO chemi-
sorption energy at these overlayers.
When using Table II, for example, to decide which surface composition
will be best for a given reaction, it must be borne in mind that the actual
surface composition of a real catalyst particle cannot be varied at random.
The tendency of one metal to segregate to the surface of another largely
controls the surface composition. In the design of a catalyst, it therefore
is of interest to have an overview of the tendency of different metals to
segregate to the surface. Again, DFT calculations are a useful source of
such information. Figure 39 shows a compilation of surface segregation
energies of all transition metals (132). It can be seen from Fig. 39, for
example, that even though the Pt/Au(111) system has interesting chemical
properties is not a potential catalyst because the platinum is driven to the
bulk by the energetics [the segregation energy for the Pt/Au(111) system
is positive].
In many cases, alloying effects have been shown experimentally to change
the reactivities of single-crystal surfaces (99, 133–135), and alloying effects
have been explored extensively in catalyst development (136). Testing of
such catalysts may beneﬁt especially from new fast screening techniques
118
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 39.
Compilation of calculated segregation energies on the most close-packed surface
of all binary combinations of transition metals. Adapted from Christensen et al. (132).
(137). The concepts developed previously, in conjunction with databases
such as those in Fig. 39 and Table II, may be useful in guiding the choice
of candidate combinations of metals to test experimentally.
C.
PROMOTION AND POISONING
The reactivity of a metal surface is modiﬁed by the presence of coadsor-
bates. Alkali metal adsorbates, for instance, are added to the iron- and
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
119
ruthenium-based industrial ammonia synthesis catalysts, causing an en-
hanced reactivity with respect to N2 bond activation (138–140). Another
example of a coadsorbate-modiﬁed catalyst is the nickel-based catalyst used
in the SPARG process for steam reforming (124). In this process, H2S is
added to the feed gas ﬂow, resulting in adsorbed sulfur atoms that inhibit
coking of the surface in much the same way that gold inhibits coking in
the Au/Ni catalyst discussed previously.
The interaction of identical coadsorbates was considered in Section III.C,
and four different interaction types were described. The direct overlap of
orbitals is operative for small adsorbate–adsorbate distances. It always
occurs and is usually repulsive. The same is true of the indirect elastic
interaction through the substrate. The other two interaction types are
more interesting:
 Indirect interaction through the metal d bands
 Direct electrostatic interaction
The indirect interaction through the metal d bands is illustrated in Fig.
40 (141). Here, the Ru 4d bands at a ruthenium atom next to a threefold
site are shown before and after the adsorption of sulfur in the threefold
site. Figure 40 shows how the ruthenium 4d band center is shifted down
upon adsorption of sulfur. The sulfur atom effectively provides some of
the coordination that a ruthenium atom in the surface lacks. Once the
ruthenium atom is more highly coordinated, the d band width of the surface
atom increases and the d band shifts down. This electronic effect weakens
the bonding of other adsorbates in sites involving ruthenium atoms that have
FIG. 40.
The Ru(0001) d DOS including the effect of sulfur. Adapted from Mortensen
et al. (141).
120
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
already reacted. For N2 dissociation on a Ru(0001) surface with coadsorbed
sulfur, the energy barrier is increased substantially by the presence of the
surface sulfur atoms (Fig. 41). Farther away, the effect is weaker, however,
because it involves only the shift of d bands at immediate surface neigh-
bor atoms.
So far, we have implicitly assumed that the changes in adsorbate bond
strengths and energy barriers resulting from changes in the electronic struc-
ture of a metal surface can be traced to the Kohn–Sham eigenvalue spectra
of the DFT calculations, i.e., to the change in the sum of Kohn–Sham eigen
energies resulting from adsorption,  i i. A formal derivation, however,
reveals that electronic structure changes may also be manifest in changes
of the (nonlocal) electrostatic contributions, Ees, to the adsorbate bond
strengths and energy barriers (40, 44, 142). The potential energy change
from the electronic effect must therefore be written as follows:
Ea  
i
i  Ees.
(2)
FIG. 41.
(Bottom) Snapshots of the minimum energy path for the N2 dissociation reaction:
Initial state in which the molecule is standing perpendicular to the surface (I), metastable
state (M), transition state (TS), and ﬁnal state (F). (Top) The energy along the path. The
effect on the transition state of adding one-eighth of a monolayer of sulfur or sodium or one-
sixth of a monolayer of cesium is also shown. Adapted from Mortensen et al. (141).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
121
When sodium or cesium is adsorbed on Ru(0001), there is no d band
shift (relative to the Fermi level) at ruthenium sites farther than one lattice
constant away. Consequently, the ﬁrst term in Eq. (2) is approximately
zero. Because of charge transfer from the alkali metal adsorbates to the
ruthenium surface, however, there are electrostatic effects. This is shown
in Fig. 42, in which the d bands are shown to be essentially unchanged,
whereas an electrostatic ﬁeld, , has been induced outside the ruthenium
surface. In Fig. 41 the result of a full DFT description of the N2 dissociation
on a Ru(0001) surface with coadsorbed sodium or cesium is also shown.
The energy barrier is reduced by some amount ETS as a consequence of
the presence of either sodium or cesium. These atoms thus act as promoters
for the N2 bond activation. The effect can be traced to the electrostatic
interaction between the dipole, , of the N2 transition state complex inter-
acting with the induced electrostatic ﬁeld, , due the adsorbed alkali atoms.
In Fig. 43, ETS is plotted as a function of the quantity
Edip  .
(3)
A clear correlation is evident, conﬁrming that the electrostatic interaction
is dominating (143).
In the examples discussed previously, special care was taken to consider
low coverages of poisons or promoters. This is usually the situation encoun-
FIG. 42.
Calculated change in the electrostatic potential outside a Ru(0001) surface as a
result of the adsorption of a sodium or a cesium atom. The potential is shown along a line
perpendicular to the ruthenium surface at a site 5.48 A
˚ from the alkali metal atom. In the
inset, the d DOS is shown with (dashed line) and without (solid line) the sodium illustrating
that the d DOS is almost unaffected by the presence of the alkali metal atom. From Mortensen
et al. (141).
122
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
FIG. 43.
Interaction energy between alkali metal atoms and N2 in the transition state for
dissociation as a function of . The alkali metal atoms are sodium (circles) and cesium
(squares). Many different geometries have been considered corresponding to different dis-
tances between the transition state complex and the alkali metal atoms. Adapted from Mor-
tensen et al. (141).
tered in practical catalysis, and it singles out the long- and short-range
effects as well. If one instead considers high coverages, one ﬁnds that all
the interaction types work simultaneously, and the picture becomes much
more complicated (144, 145).
VI.
Summary and Extension of Concepts to Metal Sulﬁdes
Density functional calculations of adsorption and reactions at metal sur-
faces have reached a point at which the complexity of real catalytic surfaces
and adsorbates can be treated at a level of accuracy that is sufﬁcient for
understanding bonding mechanisms, for determining reaction pathways,
and for comparing different systems. The calculations therefore provide a
new and powerful source of input to the description of heterogeneous
catalysis. The calculations will never replace experiments, but they may in
many cases be the simplest or even the only possible way of obtaining
some information.
The calculations also provide new ways of testing whether the concepts
we use to describe surface chemical processes are correct. For instance, it
has been shown in this way that earlier reactivity measures such as the
density of states at the Fermi level or the number of d holes cannot in
general describe variations in reactivity from one transition metal to the
next (45).
FIG. 44.
Molecular (ECO
chem) and atomic (Eatomic
chem ) binding energy as a function of the d
band center (d) of the metal surface (top and middle, respectively). The barrier for dissociation
of small molecules, referred to gas-phase zero, as a function of d is shown in the bottom.
Common shadings are used for data corresponding to the same metal in each of the three
panels. Lines drawn represent best linear ﬁts. X : XY reﬂects chemisorption or dissociation
at atom X in an XY–alloy surface. X@Y means an X atom impurity in a Y surface. From
Mavrikakis et al. (14).
124
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
In this review, we have focused on some simple concepts that can be
used to classify the reactivities of transition metal surfaces. The goal is to
gain an understanding of the properties of the clean surface that determine
its reactivity. If we can single out these factors, we have powerful concepts
that can be used to develop new and more effective catalysts.
We have shown that electronic and geometrical factors can be separated
and that both are important in determining the reactivity. The main conclu-
sion of our work is that when considering variations in the reactivity of a
particular metal or group of metals, a single parameter, the center of the
d band (d), is strongly related to both the stabilities of atoms and molecules
on the surface and the energies of transition states for surface processes.
A summary of many calculations illustrating this point is shown in Fig. 44.
We have shown in detail why this is the case, and we have shown what
determines variations in d; low-coordinated or ‘‘expanded’’ metal atoms
are more reactive than highly coordinated or ‘‘compressed’’ metal atoms.
These concepts have been developed speciﬁcally for transition metal
surfaces, but there are good reasons to believe that they are more general.
To exemplify this, we show here as the ﬁnal example how very similar
concepts can be used to understand the reactivities of transition metal
sulﬁdes. MoS2 (on supports) is used, extensively as a catalyst for hydrotreat-
ing processes. It is known that cobalt and nickel promote the catalysts,
whereas iron (next to these elements in the periodic table) does not. It is
also known that the promoter atoms are situated at the perimeter of the
supported MoS2 nanoparticles. In this connection, it is interesting to know
FIG. 45.
Plot of the change in the S-binding energy to the edge of a MoS2 slab, with Fe,
Co, and Ni substituted for one of the Mo atoms next to the S atom in question. The result
is shown as a function of the center of the projected d density of states on the Fe, Co, or Ni
atoms in questions. From Byskov et al. (146).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
125
how iron, cobalt, and nickel affect the stability of edge sulfur atoms. If, for
example, the sulfur atoms are more easily removed in the presence of
cobalt, this might create more active sites with coordinatively unsaturated
metal atoms and thus explain the promoting effect. In Fig. 45, the variations
in the calculated sulfur binding energy (the reaction energy for H2S forma-
tion from H2) for different promoter atoms are shown. Again, the variations
correlate with the position of the d band center.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank many colleagues and collaborators for contributing to the work described in this
review, including H. Bengaard, F. Besenbacher, L. Byskov, I. Chorkendorff, B. S. Clausen,
J. A. Dumesic, M. V. Ganduglia-Pirovano, A. Groß, L. B. Hansen, K. W. Jacobsen, P. Kratzer,
J. H. Larsen, A. Logadottir, B. I. Lundqvist, E. Lægsgaard, M. Mavrikakis, Y. Morikawa,
J. J. Mortensen, M. Neurock, O. H. Nielsen, V. Pallassana, J. Rostrup-Nielsen, A. Ruban,
M. Schefﬂer, H. L. Skriver, Z
ˇ . S
ˇljivanc
ˇanin, I. Stensgaard, K. Stokbro, P. Stoltze, E. To
¨rnqvist,
H. Topsøe, R. M. Watwe, and J. T. Yates. JKN gratefully acknowledges the hospitality of
H. Metiu and the support from the Center for Quantized Electronic Structures, University
of California, Santa Barbara, during the writing of the manuscript. This work was in part
ﬁnanced by the Danish Research Councils through The Center for Surface Reactivity and
Grants 9501775, 9800425, and 9803041. The Center for Atomic-Scale Materials Physics is
sponsored by the Danish National Research Foundation.
REFERENCES
1. Barteau, A. M., and Vohs, J. M., in ‘‘Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis’’ (G. Ertl,
H. Kno
¨zinger, and J. Weitkamp, Eds.), p. 873. VCH, Weinheim, 1997.
2. Somorjai, G. A., in ‘‘Introduction of Surface Chemistry and Catalysis.’’ Wiley, New
York, 1994.
3. Gunter, P. L. J., Niemantsverdriet, J. W., Ribeiro, F., and Somorjai, G. A., Catal. Rev.—
Sci. Eng. 39, 77 (1997).
4. Cambell, C. T., Surf. Sci. Rep. 27, 1 (1997).
5. Valden, M., Lai, X., and Goodman, D. W., Science 281, 1647 (1998).
6. Henry, C. R., Surf. Sci. Rep. 31, 235 (1998).
7. Sandell, A., Libuda, J., Bru
¨hwiler, P. A., Andersson, S., Maxwell, A. J., Ba
¨umer, M.,
Ma
˚rtensson, N., Freund, H.-J., J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 14, 1546 (1996).
8. Højrup Hansen, K., Worren, T., Stempel, S., Lægsgaard, E., Ba
¨umer, M., Freund,
H.-J., Besenbacher, F., and Stensgaard, I., Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 4120 (1999).
9. Clausen, B. S., Topsøe, H., and Frahm, R., Adv. Catal. 42, 315 (1998).
10. Thomas, J. M., and Lambert, R. M. (Eds.), ‘‘Characterization of Catalysts.’’ Wiley, New
York, 1980.
11. Delgass, W. N., Haller, G. L., Kellerman, R., and Lunsford, J. H. (Eds.), ‘‘Spectroscopy
in Heterogeneous Catalysis.’’ Academic Press, New York, 1979.
12. Niemantsverdriet, J. W., ‘‘Spectroscopy in Catalysis: An Introduction.’’ VCH, Wein-
heim, 1993.
13. Vitos, L., Ruban, A. V., Skriver, H., and Kollar, J., Surf. Sci. 411, 186 (1998).
14. Mavrikakis, M., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 2819 (1998).
15. Here, W. J., Radom, L., Schleyer, P. v. R., and Pople, J. A., ‘‘Ab Initio Molecular Orbital
Theory.’’ Wiley, New York, 1987.
126
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
16. Hohenberg, P., and Kohn, W., Phys. Rev. 136, B864 (1964); Kohn, W., and Sham, L.,
Phys. Rev. 140, A1133 (1965).
17. Payne, M. C., Teter, M. P., Allan, D. C., Arias, T. A., and Joannopoulos, J. D., Rev.
Mod. Phys. 64, 1045 (1992).
18. Kresse, G., and Forthmu
¨ller, J., Comput. Mat. Sci. 6, 15 (1996).
19. Yang, H., and Whitten, J. L., J. Chem. Phys. 96, 5529 (1992).
20. Inglesﬁeld, J. E., and Benesh, G. A., Phys. Rev. B 37, 6682 (1988).
21. MacLaren, J. M., Crampin, S., Vvedensky, D. D., and Pendry, J. B., Phys. Rev. B 40,
12164 (1989).
22. Skriver, H. L., and Rosengaard, N. M., Phys. Rev. B 43, 9538 (1991).
23. Vanderbilt, D., Phys. Rev. B 41, 7892 (1990).
24. Blo
¨chl, P. E., Phys. Rev. B 50, 17953 (1994).
25. Becke, A. D., J. Chem. Phys. 98, 5648 (1993).
26. Perdew, J. P., Chevary, J. A., Vosko, S. H., Jackson, K. A., Pederson, M. R., Singh,
D. J., and Fiolhais, C., Phys. Rev. B 46, 6671 (1992).
27. Perdew, J. P., Burke, K., and Ernzerhof, M., Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 3865 (1996).
28. Hammer, B., Hansen, L. B., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. B 59, 7413 (1999).
29. Hammer, B., Jacobsen, K. W., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 70, 3971 (1993).
30. Philipsen, P. H. T., te Velde, G., and Baerends, E. J., Chem. Phys. Lett. 226, 583 (1994).
31. Hu, P., King, D. A., Crampin, S., Lee, M.-H., and Payne, M. C., Chem. Phys. Lett. 230,
501 (1994).
32. Hammer, B., Schefﬂer, M., Jacobsen, K. W., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 73,
1400 (1994).
33. White, J. A., Bird, D. M., Payne, M. C., and Stich, I., Phys. Rev. Lett. 73, 1404 (1994).
34. Brown, W. A., Kose, R., and King, D. A., Chem. Rev. 98, 797 (1998).
35. Pettifor, D., ‘‘Bonding and Structure of Molecules and Solids.’’ Clarendon, Oxford, 1995.
36. Lundqvist, B. I., Gunnarsson, O., Hjelmberg, H., and Nørskov, J. K., Surf. Sci. 89,
196 (1979).
37. Newns, D. M., Phys. Rev. 178, 1123 (1969); Grimley, T. B., J. Vac. Sci. Techno. 8, 31
(1971); 9, 561 (1971).
38. Hammer, B., Faraday Discuss. 110, 323 (1998).
39. Starke, U., Van Hove, M. A., and Somorjai, G. A., Prog. Surf. Sci. 46, 305 (1994).
40. Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., in ‘‘Chemisorption and Reactivity on Supported Clusters
and Thin Films’’ (R. M. Lambert and G. Pacchioni, Eds.), pp. 285–351. Kluwer Academic,
Dordrecht, 1997.
41. Bogicevic, A., Stromquist, J., and Lundqvist, B. I., Phys. Rev. B 57, R4289 (1998).
42. Steininger, H., Lehwald, S., and Ibach, H., Surf. Sci. 123, 1 (1982).
43. Nørskov, J. K., Rep. Prog. Phys. 53, 1253 (1990).
44. Holloway, S., Lundqvist, B. I., and Nørskov, J. K., in ‘‘Proceedings of the International
Congress on Catalysis,’’ Vol. 4, p. 85, Verlag Chemie Weinheim Berlin, 1984.
45. Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Surf. Sci. 343, 211 (1995); 359, 306 (1996).
46. Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Nature 376, 238 (1995).
47. Mortensen, J. J., Morikawa, Y., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., J. Catal. 169, 85 (1997).
48. Stokbro, K., and Baroni, S., Surf. Sci. 370, 166 (1997).
49. Toyoshima, I., and Somorjai, G. A., Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 19, 105 (1979).
50. Andersen, O. K., Jepsen, O., and Glo
¨tzel, D., in ‘‘Highlights of Condensed Matter
Theory,’’ LXXXIX, p. 59. Corso Soc. Italiana di Fisica, Bologna, 1985.
51. Hoffmann, R., Rev. Mod. Phys. 60, 601 (1988).
52. Bagus, P. S., and Pacchioni, G., Surf. Sci. 278, 427 (1992).
53. Blyholder, G., J. Phys. Chem. 68, 2772 (1964).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
127
54. Van Santen, R. A., and Neurock, M., Catal. Rev.—Sci. Eng. 37, 557 (1995).
55. Hammer, B., Morikawa, Y., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 2141 (1996).
56. Loffreda, D., Simon, D., and Sautet, P., J. Chem. Phys. 108, 6447 (1998).
57. Broden, G., Rhodin, T. N., Brukner, C., Benbow R., and Hurysh, Z., Surf. Sci. 59,
593 (1976).
58. Pallassana, V., and Neurock, M., J. Catal. in press (2000).
59. Ge, Q., and King, D. A., J. Chem. Phys. 110, 4699 (1999).
60. Mortensen, J. J., Ganduglia-Pirovano, M. V., Hansen, L. B., Hammer, B., Stoltze, P.,
and Nørskov, J. K., Surf. Sci. 422, 8 (1999).
61. Bozso, F., Ertl, G., Grunze, M., and Weiss, M., J. Catal. 49, 18 (1977); Imbihl, R., Behm,
R. J., Ertl, G., and Moritz, W., Surf. Sci. 123, 129 (1982).
62. Stampﬂ, C., Schwegmann, S., Over, H., Schefﬂer, M., and Ertl, G., Phys. Rev. Lett. 77,
3371 (1996).
63. Stampﬂ, C., Kreuzer, H. J., Payne, S. H., Pfnu
¨r, H., and Schefﬂer, M., Phys. Rev. Lett.
83, 2993 (1999).
64. Diekho
¨ner, L., Baurichter, A., Mortensen, H., and Luntz, A. C., submitted for publication.
65. Ge, Q., King, D. A., Lee, M.-H., White, J. A., and Payne, M. C., J. Chem. Phys. 106,
1210 (1997).
66. Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 4441 (1997).
67. Lau, K. H., and Kohn, W., Surf. Sci. 65, 607 (1977).
68. O
¨ sterlund, L., Pedersen, M. O
¨ ., Stensgaard, I., Lægsgaard, E., and Besenbacher, F., Phys.
Rev. Lett. 83, 4812 (1999).
69. Bradley, J. M., Hopkinson, A., and King, D. A., J. Phys. Chem. 99, 17032 (1995).
70. Somorjai, G. A., and Borodko, Y., Catal. Lett. 59, 89 (1999).
71. Murphy, M. J., Skelly, J. F., Hodgson, A., and Hammer, B., J. Chem. Phys. 110, 6954
(1999).
72. Darling, G. R., and Holloway, S., Rep. Prog. Phys. 58, 1595 (1995).
73. Groß, A., Surf. Sci. Rep. 32, 291 (1998).
74. Kroes, G. J., Prog. Surf. Sci. 60, 1 (1999).
75. Mavrikakis, M., Hansen, L. B., Mortensen, J. J., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., in
‘‘Transition State Modelling for Catalysis’’ (D. G. Truhlar and K. Morokuma, Eds.),
ACS Symposium Series, 721, Oxford University Press, 1999.
76. van Daelen, M. A., Li, Y. S., Newsam, J. M., and van Santen, R. A., Chem. Phys. Lett.
266, 100 (1994).
77. Eichler, A., and Hafner, J., Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 4481 (1997).
78. Gravil, P. A., Bird, D. M., and White, J. A., Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 3933 (1996).
79. Alavi, A., Hu, P., Deutsch, T., Silvestrelli, P. L., and Hutter, J., Phys. Rev. Lett. 80,
3650 (1998).
80. Eichler, A., and Hafner, J., Phys. Rev. B 59, 5960 (1999).
81. Stampﬂ, C., and Schefﬂer, M., Phys. Rev. Lett. 78, 1500 (1997).
82. Watwe, R. M., Cortright, R. D., Nørskov, J. K., and Dumesic, J. A., to be published.
83. Dahl, S., Logadottir, A., Egeberg, R. C., Larsen, J. H., Chrokendorff, I., To
¨rnqvist, E.,
and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 1814 (1999).
84. Hammer, B., Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 3681 (1999).
85. Morikawa, Y., Mortensen, J. J., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Surf. Sci. 386, 67 (1997).
86. Kratzer, P., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., J. Chem. Phys. 105, 5595 (1996).
87. Berger, H. F., Leisch, M., Winkler, A., and Rendulic, K., Chem. Phys. Lett. 175, 425
(1985); Robota, H. J., Vielhaber, W., Lin, M. C., Segner, J., and Ertl, G., Surf. Sci. 155,
101 (1985).
88. Brown, J. K., Luntz, A., and Schultz, P. A., J. Chem. Phys. 95, 3767 (1991).
128
B. HAMMER AND J. K. NØRSKOV
89. Hayden, B. E., and Lamont, C. L., Phys. Rev. Lett. 63, 1823 (1989); Rasmussen, P. B.,
Holmblad, P. M., Christoffersen, H., Taylor, P. A., and Chorkendorff, I., Surf. Sci. 287/
288, 79 (1993).
90. Sault, A. G., Madix, R. J., and Cambell, C. T., Surf. Sci. 169, 347 (1986).
91. Eichler, A., Kresse, G., and Hafner, J., Surf. Sci. 397, 116 (1998).
92. Wilke, S., and Schefﬂer, M., Phys. Rev. B 53, 4926 (1996).
93. Groß, A., Wilke, S., and Schefﬂer, M., Phys. Rev. Lett. 75, 2718 (1995).
94. White, J. A., Bird, D. M., and Payne, M. C., Phys. Rev. B 53, 1667 (1996).
95. Kay, M., Darling, G. R., Holloway, S., White, J. A., and Bird, D. M., Chem. Phys. Lett.
245, 311 (1995).
96. Gsell, M., Jakob, P., and Menzel, D., Science 280, 717 (1998).
97. Rodriguez, J. A., and Goodman, D. W., Science 257, 897 (1992).
98. Madey, T. E., Nien, C.-H., Pelhos, K., Kolodziej, J. J., Abdelrehim, I. M., and Tao,
H.-S., Surf. Sci. 438, 191 (1999).
99. Bautier de Mongeot, F., Scherer, M., Gleich, B., Kopatzki, E., and Behm, R. J., Surf.
Sci. 411, 249 (1998).
100. Kampshoff, E., Hahn, E., and Kern, K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 73, 704 (1994).
101. Larsen, J. H., and Chorkendorff, I., Surf. Sci. 405, 62 (1998).
102. Pedersen, M. Ø., Helveg, S., Ruban, A., Stensgaard, I., Lægsgaard, E., Nørskov, J. K.,
and Besenbacher, F., Surf. Sci. 426, 395 (1999).
103. Zambelli, T., Wintterlin, J., and Ertl, G., to be published.
104. Logadottir, A., to be published.
105. Clausen, B. S., and Nørskov, J. K., Topics Catal., in press (1999).
106. Klimenkov, M., Nepijko, S., Kuhlenbeck, H., Baumer, M., Schlo
¨gl, R., and Freund,
H.-J., Surf. Sci. 391, 27 (1997); Nepijko, S., Klimenkov, M., Kuhlenbeck, H., Zemlyanov,
D., Herein, D., Schlo
¨gl, R., and Freund, H.-J., Surf. Sci. 412/413, 192 (1998).
107. Giorgio, S., Chapon, C., Henry, C. R., Nihoul, G., and Penisson, J. M., Phil. Mag. A 64,
87 (1991).
108. Hammer, B., Nielsen, O. H., and Nørskov, J. K., Catal. Lett. 46, 31 (1997).
109. Kratzer, P., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Surf. Sci. 359, 45 (1996).
110. Hammer, B., Surf. Sci., in press (2000).
111. Feibelman, P. J., Esch, S., and Michely, T., Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 2257 (1996).
112. Tripa, C. E., Zubkov, T. S., Yates, J. T., Mavrikakis, M., and Nørskov, J. K., J. Chem.
Phys. 111, 8651 (1999).
113. Bengaard, H. S., Rostrup-Nielsen, J. R., and Nørskov, J. K., to be published.
114. Ramsier, R. D., Gao, Q., Neergaard Waltenburg, H., and Yates, J. T., Jr., J. Chem. Phys.
100, 6837 (1994).
115. Kose, R., Brown, W. A., and King, D. A., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121, 4845 (1999).
116. Zambelli, T., Wintterlin, J., Trost, J., and Ertl, G., Science 273, 1688 (1996).
117. Dietrich, H., Geng, P., Jacobi, K., and Ertl, G., J. Chem. Phys. 104, 375 (1996).
118. Taylor, H. S., Proc. R. Soc. London A 108, 105 (1925).
119. Boudart, M., Adv. Catal. Relat. Subj. 20, 153 (1969).
120. Shekhar, R., and Barteau, M. A., Catal. Lett. 31, 221 (1995).
121. Hammer, B., and Schefﬂer, M., Phys. Rev. Lett. 74, 3487 (1995).
122. Besenbacher, F., Chorkendorff, I., Clausen, B. S., Hammer, B., Molenbroek, A., Nørskov,
J. K., and Stensgaard, I., Science 279, 1913 (1998).
123. Holmblad, P. M., Hvolbæk Larsen, J., Chorkendorff, I., Nielsen, L. P., Besenbacher, F.,
Stensgaard, I., Lægsgaard, E., Kratzer, P., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Catal. Lett.
40, 131 (1996).
THEORETICAL SURFACE SCIENCE AND CATALYSIS
129
124. Rostrup-Nielsen, J., J. Catal. 85, 31 (1994); Andersen, N. T., Topsøe, F., Alstrup, I., and
Rostrup-Nielsen, J., J. Catal. 104, 454 (1987).
125. Delbecq, F., and Sautet, P., Chem. Phys. Lett. 302, 91 (1999).
126. Delbecq, F., and Sautet, P., Phys. Rev. B 59, 5142 (1999).
127. Pallassana, V., Neurock, M., Hansen, L. B., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev.
B 60, 6146 (1999); Pallassana, V., Neurock, M., Hansen, L. B., and Nørskov, J. K., to
be published.
128. Ruban, A., Hammer, B., Stoltze, P., Skriver, H. L., and Nørskov, J. K., J. Mol. Catal.
A 115, 421 (1997).
129. Weinert, M., and Watson, R. E. Phys. Rev. B 51, 17168 (1995).
130. Hennig, D., Ganduglia-Pirovano, M. V., and Schefﬂer, M., Phys. Rev. B 53, 10344 (1996).
131. Ganduglia-Pirovano, M. V., Natoli, V., Cohen, M. H., Kudrnovsky, J., and Turek, I.,
Phys. Rev. B 54, 8892 (1996).
132. Christensen, A., Ruban, A. V., Stoltze, P., Jacobsen, K. W., Skriver, H. L., Nørskov,
J. K., and Besenbacher, F., Phys. Rev. B 56, 5822 (1997); Ruban, A. V., Skriver, H. L.,
and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. B, 59, 15900 (1999).
133. Bertolini, J. C., Tardy, B., Abon, M., Billy, J., Delichere, P., and Massardier J. Surf. Sci.
135, 117 (1983).
134. Nieuwenhuys, B. E., Surf. Rev. Lett. 3, 1869 (1996).
135. Linke, R., Schneider, U., Busse, H., Becker, C., Schro
¨der, U., Castro, G. R., and Wandelt,
K., Surf. Sci. 307–309, 4074 (1994).
136. Sinfelt, J. H., ‘‘Bimetallic Catalysts: Discoveries, Concepts, and Applications.’’ Wiley,
New York, 1983; Ponec, V., Adv. Catal. 32, 149 (1983).
137. Cong, P., Doolen, R. D., Fan, Q., Giaquinta, D. M., Guan, S., McFarland, E. W., Poojary,
D. M., Selt, K., Turner, H. W., and Weinberg, W. H., Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl., 38,
484 (1999).
138. Jennings, J. R. (Ed.), ‘‘Catalytic Ammonia Synthesis.’’ Plenum, New York, 1991; H.
Topsøe, H. Boudart, and J. K. Nørskov (Eds.), Topics Catal. 1, 185–415 (1994).
139. Ertl, G., Lee, S. B., and Weiss, M., Surf. Sci. 111, L711 (1981); Ertl, G., Catal. Rev.—Sci.
Eng. 21, 201 (1980).
140. Spencer, N. D., Schoonmaker, R. C., and Somorjai, G. A., J. Catal. 74, 129 (1982).
141. Mortensen, J. J., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 4333 (1998);
Mortensen, J. J., Hammer, B., and Nørskov, J. K., Surf. Sci. 414, 315 (1998).
142. Jacobsen, K. W., Nørskov, J. K., and Puska, M. J., Phys. Rev. B 35, 7423 (1987).
143. Nørskov, J. K., Holloway, S., and Lang, N. D., Surf. Sci. 137, 65 (1984); Nørskov, J. K.,
in ‘‘Physics and Chemistry of Alkali Metal Adsorption’’ (H. P. Bonzel, A. M. Bradshaw,
and G. Ertl, Eds.), p. 253. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1989.
144. Wilke, S., and Schefﬂer, M., Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 3380 (1996).
145. Wilke, S., and Cohen, M. H., Surf. Sci. 380, 1441 (1997).
146. Byskov, L., Clausen, B. S., Topsøe, H., and Nørskov, J. K., J. Catal. 187, 109 (1999).
