<quotes>

[1] "Borosilicate zeolites are the active catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), which provide an ideal platform to explore the origin of catalytic activity for boron-containing catalysts as well as the construction of highly active boron centers."
[2] "The isolated B(OSi)3 units that are fully incorporated into the zeolite framework are confirmed inactive for ODHP reaction over B-MWW zeolite."
[3] "On the contrary, the defect boron sites are of the essence in catalyzing the ODHP reaction, and the aggregated boron species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than the isolated species."
[4] "The BOH groups in aggregated BOx species that hydrogen bond with adjacent SiOH groups are identified as the active center and high efficiency in catalyzing ODHP reaction at low temperature."
[5] "In this work, a series of boron-containing MFI-type zeolite (BMFI) catalysts with different crystallinity and well-dispersed boron species were prepared, and investigated for catalyzing the ODHP reaction."
[6] "The crystallinity was regulated by adjusting the hydrothermal synthesis conditions."
[7] "It turned out to be that the catalysts with low crystallinity exhibited superior activity and higher productivity of olefin at low temperature."
[8] "Structure characterizations revealed that the incomplete crystallization could enrich the defect boron sites with hydrogen bonded to adjacent silanols, which were responsible for the superior catalytic activity of the BMFI catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Borosilicate zeolites serve as active catalysts in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), providing a platform to explore the origin of catalytic activity for boron-containing catalysts and the construction of highly active boron centers. The isolated B(OSi)3 units fully incorporated into the zeolite framework are inactive for ODHP over B-MWW zeolite. In contrast, defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated boron species being more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. The BOH groups in aggregated BOx species that hydrogen bond with adjacent SiOH groups are identified as the active center for catalyzing the ODHP reaction at low temperature. A series of boron-containing MFI-type zeolite (BMFI) catalysts with different crystallinity and well-dispersed boron species were prepared and investigated for catalyzing the ODHP reaction. The crystallinity was regulated by adjusting the hydrothermal synthesis conditions. Catalysts with low crystallinity exhibited superior activity and higher productivity of olefin at low temperature. Structure characterizations revealed that incomplete crystallization could enrich defect boron sites with hydrogen bonded to adjacent silanols, responsible for the superior catalytic activity of the BMFI catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硼硅酸盐沸石在丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)中充当活性催化剂，为探索含硼催化剂的催化活性来源和构建高活性硼中心提供了平台。完全嵌入沸石框架的孤立B(OSi)3单元在B-MWW沸石上的ODHP反应中是不活跃的。相反，缺陷硼位点对于催化ODHP反应至关重要，聚合硼物种在丙烷的CH键活化方面比孤立物种更有效。在聚合BOx物种中与相邻SiOH基团形成氢键的BOH基团被鉴定为在低温下催化ODHP反应的活性中心。一系列具有不同结晶度和分散良好的硼物种的硼含MFI型沸石(BMFI)催化剂被制备并用于催化ODHP反应的研究。结晶度通过调整水热合成条件来调节。结果表明，结晶度低的催化剂在低温下表现出优越的活性和更高的烯烃生产力。结构表征表明，不完全结晶可以丰富与相邻硅醇形成氢键的缺陷硼位点，这些位点对BMFI催化剂的优异催化活性负责。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
