I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Step mediated surface alloy formation of Pt/Cu(1 1 1) Abstract Medium energy ion scattering has been used to probe the early stages of the development of a surface alloy of platinum deposited on Cu(1 1 1). Our experiments reveal the presence of a novel two-layer precursor PtCu alloy at low temperatures prior to formation of the expected Cu3Pt surface alloy at near 550 K. Comparison of the alloying behaviour of one monolayer of platinum on a nominally flat copper surface with that on a vicinal copper surface, Cu(12 12 11), demonstrates that the formation of this precursor alloy is mediated by steps on the surface. A model is proposed for the mechanism of formation of this precursor alloy, which occurs at much lower temperatures than previously observed for surface alloying of the platinumcopper system.
1. Introduction
The structure and mechanisms of surface alloy formation have been the subject of numerous investigations over the years [1] ,[2] . In general, the alloying process can occur through a variety of processes including bulk atomic exchange, along grain boundaries or across surfaces. For single crystal substrates, the diffusion of a deposited thin film can, under certain circumstances, be limited to the upper few atomic layers of the crystal and leads to the formation of a surface alloy [3] . Since surface alloy formation is typically activated at lower temperatures than that required for bulk interdiffusion, a variety of novel structures can be fabricated without complete intermixing of the surface and bulk materials. These materials have been widely studied and the current interest in surface alloy formation is driven primarily by their scientific and technological applications, such as catalysis [4] .
Earlier studies of the growth of platinum on copper (1 1 1) indicated that platinum films deposited at room temperature grow via a layer-by-layer mechanism [5] ,[6] ,[7] . It is well established that subsequent annealing to around 600 K leads to the formation of a stable Cu3Pt surface alloy, which extends for just a few monolayers [8] . These ordered alloys have an oscillating compositional profile with depth that comprises alternating platinum-rich and copper-rich layers [9] . This paper reports medium energy ion scattering (MEIS) investigations of the growth of platinum on a nominally flat Cu(1 1 1) surface in comparison with that on a Cu(12 12 11) surface. The Cu(1 1 1) sample has an alignment specification of 0.5 or better corresponding to a minimum terrace length of 24 nm in the (1 1 2) azimuth. The Cu(12 12 11) sample, in comparison, has a terrace length of 5 nm. We demonstrate that the formation of the stable Cu3Pt surface alloy on Cu(1 1 1) is preceded by the formation of a thin copperplatinum precursor alloy that is confined to the first two monolayers of the surface. Surprisingly, the formation of this precursor alloy occurs even at temperatures as low as 200 K and indicates that the platinum adatoms are highly mobile at low temperatures. A comparison with measurements of the growth of Pt on a vicinal Cu(12 12 11) surface indicates that the formation of this precursor alloy is mediated by the presence of steps on the surface.
2. Experimental
MEIS measurements were performed at the CCLRC MEIS facility, Daresbury, UK,[10] using a collimated 100 keV hydrogen ion beam, with the backscattered ion signal detected by a toroidal electrostatic analyser. A double-aligned, low-index scattering geometry that illuminated the first three layers ([4 1 1] incidence) was chosen to afford layer-specific compositional analysis ( Fig. 1 ). The use of a single geometry giving one, two and three-layer information simultaneously [11] is used in preference to the more usual method of employing three geometries to give the information separately [12] . In the [4 1 1] geometry the ion beam is incident at 54.74 to the surface along the [1 1 2] azimuth and the analyser collects a range of scattering angles from 70 to 95. Typically, the sample received an ion dose of 1016 ions cm2 per data set, after which the sample was moved to a new position.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. MEIS double-aligned, low-index scattering three layer ([4 1 1]) geometry. In the [4 1 1] geometry the ion beam is incident at 54.74 to the surface along the surface direction [1 1 2]. The analyser collected over a range of scattering angles from 70 to 95.
All of the MEIS spectra were collected with the surface cooled back down to 200 K prior to ion beam analysis to minimise surface vibrational effects. The scattering angles were calibrated using the positions of the bulk blocking dips. Non-linear least squares peak fitting of the energy projections from the MEIS two-dimensional spectra was used to calculate the scattered yields as a function of angle using a procedure that is described in more detail elsewhere [13] . Briefly, the energy projections were fitted using a combination of skewed Gaussian peaks and a background term. Whilst good fits to the Cu elastic peak were obtained using a single skewed Gaussian, the Pt signal was only well-fitted by adding an additional energy-loss satellite peak similar to that seen in our earlier study and attributed to an electronic excitation [13] . Any linear trends in the scattered intensity as a function of scattering angle have been removed to allow the position of the blocking dips to be determined accurately. By best-fitting VEGAS simulations to the measured yields the relative platinum concentrations in the first, second and third layers as a function of annealing temperature can be obtained [14] .
Two single crystals were used for this study: a nominally flat Cu(1 1 1) surface and a Cu(12 12 11) surface (Surface Preparation Laboratory, The Netherlands). The Cu(12 12 11) surface consists of a regular array of (1 1 1) terraces, with a mean width of 50.0 Å and separated by monatomic,micro facets. The surfaces were prepared in situ by repeated argon ion bombardment (1 keV, 30 min) and annealing (800 K, 30 min). Crystal quality was checked by LEED and Auger electron spectroscopy. Platinum deposition was performed using a water cooled electron-bombardment evaporator while maintaining the chamber pressure below 109 mbar. The evaporated flux was monitored by measuring the ion current leaving the evaporator cell and calibrated using the MEIS data. The approximate flux was 0.35 ML min1.
3. Results and discussion
Fig. 2 shows the angular resolved MEIS spectra for 0.5 ML of Pt deposited onto the nominally flat Cu(1 1 1) surface at 200 K. Panel A corresponds to the surface immediately after deposition and panels B to H show the MEIS spectra of the surface following 5 min of annealing at 225 K, 300 K, 350 K, 400 K, 500 K, 550 K, 650 K and 700 K respectively. In the first panel ( Fig. 2 A) the Cu signal shows the expected clear blocking dips at approximately 75 and 85 associated with scattered beams originating from the second and third layers respectively. Both dips are shifted slightly towards smaller angles with respect to the bulk dips indicating a slight contraction of the surface. The Pt spectra also exhibit blocking dips at these angles which develop with increasing temperature, indicating that the platinum overlayer grows with good crystallographic registry with the underlying Cu(1 1 1) substrate at all annealing temperatures. The third layer,, blocking dip (near 85) only appears once the surface has been annealed above 300 K; however, the second layer,, blocking dip (near 75) is present even at the initial deposition temperature of 225 K. In other experiments, not shown here, a blocking feature is observed faintly even in the spectrum for the Pt film deposited at 200 K. The fact that this dip is observed at all temperatures indicates that platinum is able to diffuse into the second layer upon deposition at temperatures as low as 200 K. An alternative explanation for these blocking dips could be the presence of three-dimensional Pt islands on the surface, formed as a consequence of reduced interlayer mobility at low temperatures. However, this explanation seems unlikely given that the blocking feature grows systematically with increasing anneal temperature, indicating an increased concentration of buried Pt. Such a trend is inconsistent with the expected smoothing of three-dimensional islands as temperature increases.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. [4 1 1] geometry MEIS spectra of 0.5 ML of Pt deposited onto the nominally flat Cu(1 1 1) surface at 200 K and then annealed to: (A) 225 K, (B) 300 K, (C) 350 K, (D) 400 K, (E) 500 K, (F) 550 K, (G) 650 K and (H) 700 K.
A compositional analysis was performed for uppermost three layers of 0.5 ML Pt deposited onto the nominally flat Cu(1 1 1) surface and the results are shown in Fig. 3 . We identify three distinct temperature regimes from Fig. 3 . Firstly, for anneal temperatures from 225 K to 400 K (Regime I) there is a progressive decrease in the first layer Pt concentration (Pt1) and a corresponding increase in the second layer Pt concentration (Pt2) with annealing temperature. In addition, while the data shows that there is platinum in the second layer even at 225 K, the concentration of third layer Pt (Pt3) throughout regime I is either zero or very small (<0.05 ML). Therefore, it would appear that the diffusion of Pt from first layer to second layer sites is the dominant process in this temperature regime.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. Compositional analysis of the uppermost three layers for 0.5 ML Pt deposited onto the nominally flat Cu(1 1 1) surface as a function of anneal temperature. The variation of the first (Pt1), second (Pt2) and third (Pt3) layer platinum coverage with annealing temperature are denoted by the filled circles, triangles and squares respectively. Lines have been added as a guide to the eye.Interestingly, this intermixing is restricted to the first two atomic layers and occurs at temperatures above about 200 K. Our observation of an alloyed platinum surface layer at such low temperatures is in contrast with earlier measurements of the Pt/Cu(1 1 1) system using a variety of experimental techniques, including low energy ion scattering (LEIS). This earlier work indicated that the formation of a stable Cu3Pt surface alloy occurs for annealing temperatures above 500 K with no evidence for any migration of platinum below the surface layer at room temperature having been previously reported [16] ,[17] .For anneal temperatures between 450 K and 550 K (Regime II), both the Pt1 concentration and that for Pt2 decrease while the Pt3 concentration rises to a maximum value of approximately 0.2 ML. We describe this process in terms of the formation of an ordered Cu3Pt surface alloy. Previous ion scattering studies have shown that an ordered Cu3Pt surface alloy forms when Pt films deposited on Cu(1 1 1) are annealed above 500 K [15] . The values of the Pt1, Pt2 and Pt3 concentrations in Regime II are also consistent with those expected for ordered Cu3Pt surface alloys [8] . In particular, the observation of an oscillatory composition profile for Pt1, Pt2 and Pt3 at 550 K, with similar Pt1 and Pt3 concentrations and a zero Pt2 concentration is characteristic of a layerwise-ordered surface alloy [16] .At annealing temperatures above about 700 K (Regime III), both blocking dips in the Pt spectrum start to diminish, indicating that bulk dissolution of Pt has been activated. As the temperature increases above 550 K the oscillatory composition profile is maintained, while the absolute values of Pt1 and Pt3 decrease monotonically. Again, this result is consistent with previous ion scattering data that showed that bulk dissolution is activated at temperatures above 670 K [8] .Our observation of PtCu intermixing even at 200 K suggests a far greater Pt mobility than hitherto expected. In the following discussion we term the intermixed PtCu region that occurs at low temperature a precursor alloy so as to distinguish it from the Cu3Pt surface alloy formation that occurs at higher temperatures.In order to understand further the role of surface steps during deposition and alloying, a vicinal Cu(12 12 11) surface was also investigated.Fig. 4 shows the compositional analysis of the uppermost three layers for 0.5 ML Pt deposited onto a Cu(12 12 11) surface at room temperature and subsequently annealed to 425 K, 460 K, 500 K and 550 K. There are distinct differences between the data of Fig. 3 , Fig. 4 that must be attributable to the presence of surface steps. First, the concentration of subsurface second layer platinum (Pt2) for Pt/Cu(12 12 11) at room temperature is much higher than that observed for Pt/Cu(1 1 1) with almost equal concentrations of Pt in the first and second layers. Second, Pt diffusion into the third layer increases across the data set and so also initiates at lower temperatures than on the nominally flat Cu(1 1 1) surface. Finally, at 500 K (Regime II of Fig. 3 ) a three-layer alloy has again formed. In contrast to Fig. 3 , though, there is a distinct Pt enrichment in the third layer at the expense of layers 1 and 2, indicating that the nature of the surface alloys formed on Cu(12 12 11) and Cu(1 1 1) are distinctly different.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. Compositional analysis of the uppermost three layers for 0.5 ML Pt deposited onto the vicinal Cu(12 12 11) surface as a function of annealing temperature. The variation of the first (Pt1), second (Pt2) and third (Pt3) layer platinum coverages with annealing temperature are denoted by the filled circles, triangles and squares respectively. Note the differences in temperature scale with respect to Fig. 3 . Lines have been added as a guide to the eye.The higher subsurface Pt concentrations observed for Pt growth on the Cu(12 12 11) surface suggests that intermixing of Pt and Cu in the first two surface layers is mediated by surface steps. Indeed, it is possible to speculate that the difference between the MEIS results presented here and the LEIS results reported previously for Pt/Cu(1 1 1) originates from residual steps on our nominally flat Cu(1 1 1) surface. Step mediated intermixing has been observed previously in both the Ag/Pt(1 1 1) [18] and Ni/Pt(1 1 1) [19] systems. However, for these systems the intermixing appears to be kinetically limited to the step edges with the lateral incorporation of overlayer adatoms only extending a few lattice sites into the terrace. This mechanism alone cannot explain the results presented here since such a process would not be expected to give rise to the significant subsurface Pt concentrations that are observed here. From an equilibrium thermodynamic viewpoint, the observation of intermixing for the Pt/Cu(1 1 1) system is perhaps unsurprising given the greater surface free energy of platinum compared to copper, which would tend to favour segregation of a copper surface layer [20] . Density functional calculations show that the energetically favoured phase for the Pt/Cu(1 1 1) system is as a pseudomorphic monolayer surface alloy [20] . Indeed, earlier studies of the growth of Pt/Cu(1 0 0) demonstrated that the creation of an intermixed CuPt layer occurs at room temperature for films up to 2 ML thick with the more open (1 0 0) face favouring Cu segregation [21] . However, the observation of intermixed PtCu region that is restricted to the top two layers for the growth of Pt/Cu(1 1 1) at 200 K has not been reported previously.The mechanism for the formation of precursor alloy necessarily involves Pt transport from the surface layer into the second layer. The evidence presented here suggests that residual steps could explain the difference between our work and the previous LEIS measurements. Once incorporated into the second layer, the formation of a uniform precursor alloy necessarily means that each subsurface Pt atom must travel a substantial distance within the terrace and away from the step edge. Two possible pathways illustrating the role of surface steps are presented in Fig. 5 . One possibility involves the direct exchange of a Pt atom at a step edge with the underlying Cu atom resulting in a Pt atom in the second layer ( Fig. 5 A). Alternatively, the incorporation of Pt into the second layer may involve the migration of Cu from an upper layer over a Pt atom at the step edge ( Fig. 5 B). Preliminary scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM) experiments conducted at the University of Newcastle have shown that the equilibrium structure for the Cu(12 12 11) surface at room temperature may also involve clusters of steps (step-bunching) [22] . These step bunches could further facilitate the incorporation of Pt into the second layer by the diffusion of copper atoms across the upper terrace and then down the CuPt step to occupy neighbouring sites surrounding the Cu atoms.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. Possible mechanisms of precursor alloy formation. (A) Exchange of a Pt atom at a step edge with the underlying Cu atom resulting in a Pt atom in the second layer. (B) Incorporation of Pt into the second layer via the migration of Cu from an upper layer over a Pt atom at the step edge.
4. Conclusions
In summary, we have shown that the growth of platinum on a Cu(1 1 1) surface involves the formation of a step mediated precursor alloy of platinum and copper that is restricted to the top two surface layers. The extent of precursor alloy formation depends upon the surface step density and its formation occurs at temperatures as low as 200 K. The alloy that results is a precursor to the expected Cu3Pt surface alloy that forms in a higher temperature regime between 550 K and 600 K.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 