 Carbon dioxide reduction in tandem with light-alkane dehydrogenation

Abstract
A greenhouse gas and mild oxidant, CO2 can effect the oxidative dehydrogenation (CO2-ODH) of light alkanes over heterogeneous catalysts. These catalysts are bifunctional in that they mediate CO2 reduction while oxidizing the alkanes, most notably the C2–C4 components in shale gas. In this way, one obtains CO and alkenes as value-added products. Although desirable, this transformation has proven challenging in terms of catalyst design, with most catalysts for the CO2-ODH being metal oxides that typically undergo rapid deactivation. More recently, bimetallic catalysts have been identified as promising systems to activate alkanes by either selectively cleaving C–H bonds to produce alkenes or breaking all the C–C and C–H bonds to produce the dry reforming products CO and H2. This Review describes general trends in the CO2-ODH of light alkanes. We will also outline how to use a combined approach involving flow reactor experiments, in operando characterization and density functional theory to determine whether a catalyst is intrinsically active for CO2-ODH or dry reforming.

Introduction
Shale gas is an abundant and accessible resource, each component of which may be utilized directly or serve as a precursor to value-added chemicals and fuels. Depending on the source of shale gas, up to 15% v/v of the mixture can comprise C2H6, C3H8 and C4H10, with C2H6 being the most abundant1. Unlike CH4 (ref.2), these light alkanes contain C–C bonds that can be dehydrogenated to produce C2H4, C3H6 and C4H8 isomers (denoted C2=, C3= and C4=, respectively), as well as 1,3-butadiene. The demand for these alkenes is high because they are important petrochemical building blocks. However, the conventional routes to produce the alkenes — thermal steam cracking and direct dehydrogenation (DD) — require high operating temperatures and often suffer from severe catalyst coking problems due to over-oxidation and cracking3,4. Alternatively, light alkenes can be catalytically produced from non-petroleum resources, such as coal and natural gas. However, the methanol-to-olefins (MTO)5 and methanol-to-propylene (MTP) processes6 can produce 6–10 tonnes of CO2 per tonne of olefin7, while the modified Fischer–Tropsch synthesis8 is capital-intensive. This motivates the search for alternative routes to alkenes, which brings us to reactions in which CO2 effects oxidative dehydrogenation (CO2-ODH) of light alkanes — approaches that involve CO2 reduction to CO in tandem with alkane dehydrogenation to the corresponding alkene (or diene). This tandem process requires a bifunctional catalyst to split the two very different reactants. Given access to suitable catalysts and reactors, we would have the opportunity to efficiently utilize the C2–C4 components in shale gas while also lowering the concentration of a greenhouse gas. If the total C2H4, C3H6, C4H8 and 1,3-butadiene demand (7.77 × 1012 mol yr−1)9 were to be satisfied with the CO2-ODH, assuming that each mole of alkene produced requires a mole of CO2, the process would consume 14.6% of global chemical industry emissions10. More specifically, if we were to source our C2H4 from the CO2-ODH of C2H6, the reaction would offset 9.8% of total global chemical industry CO2 emissions per year and would consume only 0.026% of total global natural gas reserves11, assuming that their C2H6 content is at least 1% v/v1.
In the CO2-ODH reaction, CO2 is a mild oxidant that is not prone to over-oxidizing substrates and does not form an explosive reactive mixture (unlike O2 in the O2-ODH). Relative to direct dehydrogenation, the introduction of CO2 alters the pathway by providing an O atom that combines with the H atoms from the alkane to give H2O, consequently lowering ΔG for the reaction and making the reaction feasible at a lower operating temperature. One must also consider that CO2 can modify the surface and/or bulk composition of a catalyst, and these changes in redox, adsorption and electronic properties can influence activity and selectivity12,13.
The CO2-ODH reaction requires a bifunctional catalyst that dissociates CO2 into CO and a reactive oxygen species *O (the asterisk notation denotes a surface-bound moiety)12,14. The resulting *O would effect dehydrogenation of the adsorbed alkane and give the corresponding alkene and H2O. The best catalysts are oxides of reducible metal ions — metal centres that readily donate abundant lattice O atoms to allow efficient turnover 15. For example, CO2-ODH reactions over Cr oxides have high initial conversion and selectivity because CrIII centres can readily convert into active CrVI forms. However, the Cr oxides have short life cycles, which, in conjunction with their toxicity, preclude commercial implementation. In contrast to oxides of Cr, those of Ga always have the metal in the +III oxidation state, and non-reducible catalysts such as Ga2O3 on an inert support such as MxOy (M = Ti, Zr, Al, Si, Mg) are proposed to operate by a two-step oxidative dehydrogenation mechanism, in which the catalyst first dehydrogenates the alkane to the alkene and H2, after which the H2 combines with CO2 in the reverse water gas shift (RWGS) reaction (CO2 + H2 → CO + H2O). The Ga2O3/MxOy catalysts are effective for CO2 activation but bind alkanes at acidic sites that can induce cracking16 — C–C cleavage reactions that lead to coke formation and catalyst deactivation17. These results highlight how we presently lack active and stable bifunctional CO2-ODH catalysts.
A variety of transition-metal compounds have been investigated for their activity in the CO2-ODH of light alkanes. For example, trends in the activity of Cr2O3, MnO2, Fe2O3 and Mo2C catalysts on redox-inactive oxide supports have been reported, but only ex situ catalyst characterization data exist and there is little detailed information regarding the active sites and mechanisms18. Some reviews summarizing the ODH of light alkanes describe the reaction with O2 as the oxidant and only briefly mention the possibility of using CO2 as a mild oxidant19,20,21,22. Other prominent reviews concerning ODH focus on the catalyst properties required for CO2 activation and place less emphasis on describing the catalysts (typically Cr oxides) used for CO2-ODH reactions of C2H6, C3H8 and C4H10 (refs12,23). In the case of CO2-ODH of C3H8 over zeolites and Cr, V, Ga and In oxides, the high temperatures at which alkane conversion is thermodynamically favoured also favour C–C scission over C–H scission, thereby substantially lowering selectivity for the desired alkene24,25. Thus, an important characteristic of a CO2-ODH catalyst is that it must selectively break C–H bonds while preserving C–C bonds in order to avoid CO2 oxidative dry reforming (DR), whereby CO2 and the alkane are converted into CO and H2.
This Review focuses on how to improve a catalyst’s selectivity for C–H scission over C–C scission pathways. We limit our scope to stable bimetallic and metal-modified carbide catalysts, and provide an atomistic description of these examples in terms of the active sites for the CO2-ODH of light alkanes. Our emphasis is on the importance of combining catalytic measurements, in situ (often referred to as in operando or simply operando) characterization and density functional theory (DFT) calculations to identify reaction mechanisms and key descriptors that can be used to rationally design improved CO2-ODH catalysts.
Thermodynamic analysis
We conducted thermodynamics analyses of the CO2-ODH of alkanes, assuming atmospheric pressure feeds and allowing the temperature to vary (HSC Chemistry Outotec v8 software, which utilizes a Gibbs free-energy-minimization algorithm). We considered both the one-step mechanism CnH2n+2 + CO2 → CnH2n + CO + H2O (n = 2–4) and a two-step mechanism involving DD CnH2n+2 → CnH2n + H2, followed by the RWGS reaction. What becomes obvious is that, as mentioned above, acceptorless DD affords lower equilibrium alkene yields than the case in which CO2 is the H2 acceptor (Fig. 1a illustrates this in the case of C2H6). Other thermodynamics studies indicate that alkanes undergo a two-step pathway in the presence of CO2, with higher equilibrium conversions than when they are in an inert gas. These conversions are higher than those for the one-step CO2-ODH pathway18,26. The Gibbs free-energy changes of the CO2-ODH reactions of alkanes become more negative with higher alkanes (i-C4 > C3 > n-C4 > C2), perhaps reflecting the favourability of forming more substituted alkenes24. Our thermodynamics analyses afforded plots of ΔG versus T, where T is temperature, for CO2-ODHE, dry reforming (DRE, E signifies ethane) and direct dehydrogenation (DDE) of C2H6, as well as the RWGS reaction, the reverse Boudouard reaction and the CO2-ODH of C3H8 and C4H10 (Fig. 1b).

Decomposition or cracking reactions can occur at the temperatures at which the CO2-ODH reaction proceeds. However, CO2 can consume the resulting coke through a comproportionation known as the reverse Boudouard reaction (CO2 + C → 2CO). High reaction temperatures favour DRE because it affords several molar equivalents of CO and H2, such that the ΔS for formation of the synthesis gas is large and positive. Equilibrium calculations have demonstrated that the yield of alkene and the composition of synthesis gas can be varied by altering the reaction temperature and CO2:alkane ratio27.
CO2-ODH of light alkanes over oxide catalysts
The most prevalent catalysts for CO2-ODH of light alkanes are oxides3,24,28 of Cr (refs29,30,31), V (refs32,33,34), Ga (refs35,36) and, to a lesser extent, In (refs37,38) and Co (refs39,40,41). The catalytic activity of transition-metal oxides is typically attributed to their redox activity, which is necessary to effect O atom transfers. Less well-examined catalysts include Ca-doped ThO2 (ref.42) and CaO doped into nanostructured CeO2 (ref.43). The support for the catalytically active oxide usually takes the form of a high-surface-area mixed oxide44,45,46, mesoporous SiO2 (ref.47) or a zeolite48. A catalytically active, reducible, high-valent metal oxide can readily donate an O atom to serve as a H2 acceptor for the alkane. To complete this redox-type Mars–van Krevelen mechanism, the metal centre undergoes oxidation by CO2 to fill the lattice O vacancy49 (Fig. 2a). The support can influence the acid–base properties and the distribution of reactive metal-oxide groups on the catalyst surface, and is, thus, not to be neglected because it can shift catalytic activity50,51.
Cr oxide catalysts
Cr oxide catalysts for the CO2-ODH can give high C2H6 conversions even after short reaction times, but the selectivity for CO2 conversion is low and the catalysts have short life cycles because they are unstable towards coking52. Cr oxides exhibit their highest activity and selectivity when supported by materials such as SiO2, siliceous MCM-41 and H-ZSM-5 with high SiO2 content27,53. Although Cr oxides can be incorporated into mesoporous structures to afford more active species, much of the Cr in these materials exists as inactive polychromates and the materials thus show greater selectivity for undesired products54. The oxidation state of Cr in a CrOx catalyst for the CO2-ODH of C2H6 depends on whether the catalyst is supported on Al2O3, ZrO2, CeO2 or CexZr1−xO2 (ref.46). The CrOx/γ-Al2O3 and CrOx/ZrO2 composites exhibit the highest ODHE activities but operate through different pathways. Thus, CrOx/γ-Al2O3 primarily works by the two-step DDE and RWGS mechanism, and can undergo deactivation if cracking affords substantial coke. By contrast, CrOx/ZrO2 performs CO2-ODH in a single step (albeit in competition with DR) and its mode of deactivation involves sintering or conversion into inactive Cr species. Instead, when CrOx is on CeO2, it is less active but more stable because the reverse Boudouard reaction can readily consume coke deposits. Studies on the CO2-ODHP (P signifies propane) reaction at 873 K concluded that CrOx/SiO2 would exhibit increased activity and C3H6 selectivity with increasing CO2 partial pressure, whereas the activity of CrOx/γ-Al2O3 would decrease with even a slight increase in the CO2 partial pressure27,50,53. The different performance between these two supports was attributed to two factors: CO2 adsorbs more strongly on γ-Al2O3 (thereby competing with C3H8 adsorption) and/or CO2 affects the acid–base properties of CrOx/γ-Al2O3.
The activation of CO2 over CrOx dispersed in MCM-41 has been attributed to isolated CrVI centres generated from CrIII in a redox cycle55,56,57,58,59 (Fig. 2b). Increasing the Cr content to 8 wt% affords the greatest CrVI:CrIII ratios and increased alkane conversion60,61. Further increasing the Cr content of supported catalysts affords uneven distributions of larger particles, which tend to agglomerate into α-Cr2O3 and increase the concentration of inactive polychromate species3,49,56,58,62. CrVI=O species dehydrogenate alkanes to the respective alkene more quickly than the resulting CrIII species undergo reoxidation by abstracting O from CO2 (ref.30). Thus, even highly dispersed CrOx catalysts with an appropriate Cr loading undergo deactivation because their CrIII sites are relatively inactive and the materials eventually experience coking58. For instance, CrOx/MCM-41 nanocatalysts for the CO2-ODH of C2H6 at 823 K show high initial selectivity for C2H4 (90%) but low maximum conversion of C2H6 (<8%)61. After 12 h on stream, the catalyst was deactivated and only maintained 30% selectivity towards the alkene. Doping the catalyst with Fe, Co or Mn improved C2H4 selectivity because the presence of the metals increases the concentration of weakly acidic sites that facilitate C2H6 activation. Moreover, doping leads to a decrease in the number of strong acid sites that mediate reforming and cracking63. The low conversion exhibited by CrOx/SiO2 in CO2-ODH catalysis can be improved by doping in Ni, an element that has strong chemisorption of CO2 (ref.64). Despite these advances, Cr catalysts remain only rarely implemented owing to their short life cycles, as well as the high toxicity of CrIII necessitating meticulous care during the preparation, use and disposal of the materials.