<quotes>
Surface Science 410 (1998) 200213 A temperature programmed desorption study of the reaction of methylacetylene on Pt(111) and Sn/Pt(111) surface alloys John W. Peck, Daniel I. Mahon, Bruce E. Koel * Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089-0482, USA Received 19 August 1997; accepted for publication 2 March 1998

3.1. Methylacetylene adsorption, desorption and
decomposition Fig. 2 shows methylacetylene
TPD
spectra following methylacetylene adsorption on Pt(111) and the two PtSn surface alloys for a variety of exposures. Exposure of methylacetylene on the Pt(111) surface leads to irreversible adsorption of the chemisorbed molecule and no molecular desorption occurs >200 K.

3.2. Methylacetylene reactions
The principal desorbed products of the reaction of a monolayer of methylacetylene during TPD on the three surfaces are shown in Figs. 68. Along with propylene (C3H6), butane, butene, isobutylene, and ethylene are desorbed products. The amount of these products varies depending on the Sn concentration.

In a comparison of the results from Fig. 2, TPD spectra are presented in Fig. 3 for methylacetylene and desorption after an exposure of methylacetylene to give slightly greater than monolayer coverage on the Pt(111) and Sn/Pt(111) surface alloys. In this figure, the intensity scale and thus absolute peak areas and adsorbate coverages, are directly comparable for the three surfaces.

Increasing the concentration of Sn in the Pt(111) surface also changes the H2 desorption temperature from dehydrogenation during TPD. The principle peak at 450 K shifts to 505 K and the series of peaks from 500 to 800 K are transformed into a less structured feature that now extends to 850 K upon changing from the Pt(111) surface to the (2×2)-Sn/Pt(111) surface alloy. Increasing the amount of Sn to form the E3 surface alloy shifts the peak at 505 K down in temperature to 490 K.

The amount of adsorbed methylacetylene which undergoes complete dissociation to form surface carbon on the three surfaces has been determined using as a standard the carbon left on the surface of the decomposition of a saturation coverage of ethylene, that is, HC=0.22 ML [36].

The correspondence between the desorption temperature of methylacetylene and the onset of propylene desorption on the alloys might indicate that the desorption of methylacetylene frees up sites necessary for the subsequent hydrogenation of methylacetylene.

The amount of propylene produced on the three surfaces was determined by comparing the TPD spectrum from a saturation dose of propylene adsorbed on Pt(111).

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Experimental techniques such as HREELS and AES can verify and quantify the oxygen-induced surface segregation of subsurface 3d atoms (particularly Ni and Co) in Pt-3d-Pt(111) bimetallic systems by measuring the segregation kinetics and activation barriers. These measurements can be compared with DFT predictions for these systems. In the case of the study on methylacetylene adsorption and reaction on Pt(111) and Sn/Pt(111) surface alloys, the researchers observed that the amount of propylene produced varied with the concentration of Sn in the surface alloy. This variation can be attributed to changes in the desorption temperature of methylacetylene and the activation energy for its desorption, which in turn affects the availability of sites for subsequent hydrogenation reactions. The amount of propylene produced on the three surfaces was determined by comparing the TPD spectrum from a saturation dose of propylene adsorbed on Pt(111).
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
实验技术，如高分辨电子能量损失光谱（HREELS）和AES，可以通过测量表面迁移率和活化能壁垒来验证并量化氧诱导的Pt-3d-Pt(111)双金属体系中次表面3d原子（特别是Ni和Co）的表面富集。这些测量结果可以与这些系统的DFT预测进行比较。在关于甲基乙炔在Pt(111)和Sn/Pt(111)表面合金上的吸附和反应的研究中，研究人员观察到丙烯产量随表面合金中Sn浓度的变化而变化。这种变化可归因于甲基乙炔脱附温度的变化和其脱附激活能的变化，这进而影响后续氢化反应所需位点的可用性。通过将丙烯饱和吸附在Pt(111)上的TPD光谱进行比较，确定了三种表面上丙烯的产生量。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
