Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in metal nanoparticles is enhanced by surface geometry changes and electronic property modifications through alloying. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altered hybridization from changed bond distances. Understanding if geometry or electronics is more dominant for selectivity in specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as highlighted in quote 9.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu systems exhibit properties surpassing those of pure components, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction effects is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with species selectively adsorbing reactants. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while Ru with Pt strengthens it, enhancing differences in CO adsorption. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance beyond that of monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements between adsorbates and surface atoms. Variations in coupling are attributed to differences in metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals' energy, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element, which describes bonding interactions. Understanding this can allow for the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with reduced DFT calculations, facilitating a fast screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloys of group 8 metals (like nickel) with group 1B metals (like copper) have a d band filled to a greater extent than pure group 8 metals, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD, demonstrating the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, leading to high reactant coverages at high temperatures. This synergy can be exploited in practical catalysts by controlling Sn concentration. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys is less than on Pt(111), indicating the alloyed surface's influence on adsorption and reaction dynamics. These findings suggest that by controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it may be possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys using the surface d-band center as a parameter shows promise for screening alloys for catalytic properties. This approach incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, with results closely matching DFT calculations on binary alloys, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by influencing the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity of alloy sites. The d-band model, which describes the width of the local density of d-states, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity, unaffected by significant charge transfer between alloy elements. This understanding allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties, enabling the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. Innovative strategies can be developed by leveraging the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, as demonstrated by the lack of significant d-electron transfer in alloys and the influence of s/p electrons on charge transfer.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, through the modification of the active metal's state, improve catalytic properties. These effects can be harnessed to design superior catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn to Pt modifies the active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke species diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance is enhanced by modifying surface geometry and electronic properties through particle size adjustment, promoter addition, or alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Electronic modification can limit catalytic improvements, necessitating adsorbate bonding configuration changes. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering pathways to exploit geometric and electronic effects for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate-cluster coupling.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "Literature lacks specifics on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance and strategies to exploit this. However, the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into the synergistic effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties affecting bond formation and breaking, including d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations elucidate electronic and geometric effects separately, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. The d-band characteristics' modifications correlate with the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, enabling efficient calculation of surfaces' properties, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This facilitates rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can alter the d-band filling, potentially affecting the catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the selectivity of reactions that require specific active metal atom sites. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay could include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, where the geometric arrangement and electronic properties of the metal atoms are tailored to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new pathway for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed layers of H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD. This demonstrates that the electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys is significantly less than on Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on reactant adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene was observed on the (2 × 2) alloy, suggesting that by controlling the Sn concentration, it may be possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model shows good agreement with DFT calculations, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, which is crucial for understanding catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, not significant charge transfer, dictates the reactivity of alloy sites, allowing prediction of chemical activity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band model, with its predictive capacity for pure metals, can be extended to alloys, considering the influence of bond distance and spatial extent of d-orbitals on the d-band center position.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like ensemble effects, enhance selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of active metals. Electronic effects modify the active metal's state, improving catalytic properties. These effects can be harnessed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and maintain simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. Smaller Pt ensembles and electronic modification by Sn inhibit coke formation, increasing selectivity. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for alloy compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry and electronic properties through alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, facilitating charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altering metal bonding hybridization from changes in bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects concern adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as highlighted in recent literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, as electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic interaction and strain in pseudomorphic overlayers modify properties, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding differing between mixed Pt and Ru. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows varied d-band local density of states, indicating strong substrate-cluster coupling.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating how alloy composition impacts catalytic activity. This example is pertinent to understanding the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic influences in transition-metal alloys, which can lead to more efficient and selective catalytic systems compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals, influenced by surface properties like the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, is sensitive to strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface metal atoms. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations help understand electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element, aiding in estimating d-band modifications. This understanding could enable the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations, offering a new screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal like nickel with a group 1B metal like copper alters the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions while having a smaller effect on hydrogenation and dehydrogenation. This selectivity is influenced by geometric factors, such as the number of adjacent active metal atoms required for different reactions, and electronic factors, such as the interaction between different metal atoms. Strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of bimetallic cluster catalysts with compositions outside the range possible in bulk solid solutions, enhancing selectivity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene. This highlights the influence of geometric and electronic properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloy compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property alterations. The highest butene conversion was observed on the (2 × 2) alloy, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting optimized performance through Sn concentration control. These findings imply that by carefully controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts, enhanced catalytic performance can be achieved.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which incorporates changes in chemical composition, strain effects, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, validating the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model predicts that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys doesn't significantly transfer charge between elements but changes the width of the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This understanding enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts by exploiting the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties. Innovative strategies can be developed to optimize these effects for improved catalytic outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the active metal's state, impacting adsorption and activation barriers. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O₂ adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The formation of PtSn alloy creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption on Pt atoms near Sn. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, facilitating charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altering metal bonding hybridization due to changed bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, referring to bonding configuration, and electronic effects, concerning adsorbate interaction strength, jointly influence catalysis. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, alters adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Strategies like intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers exploit this interplay for enhanced catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects, ensemble effects, and ligand effects collectively influence bimetallic reactivity. PtRu alloys exhibit properties surpassing those of pure components, while PdCu alloys show intermediate behavior. Pseudomorphic overlayer systems' electronic and chemical properties are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction effects is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactivity. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it. CO adsorption on CuPd(111) alloys shows similar results. PdCu interaction weakens CO binding to Pd and strengthens it with Cu. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong cluster-substrate coupling, with Au showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-band energy differences, influenced by strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations can separately determine electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. The d-band width's correlation with interatomic matrix elements offers insights into bonding interactions. This understanding could enable efficient calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate screening potential alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, offering a new, fast method.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloys of group 8 metals like nickel with group 1B metals like copper have a d band filled to a greater extent than pure group 8 metals, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface influences selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific active sites. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal decreases activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies, such as the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can exploit this interplay, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new pathway for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed layers of H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD. This highlights the role of geometric and electronic properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The study found that less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys can optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate effects of chemical composition, strain, and ligand changes, demonstrating good agreement with DFT calculations, highlighting its potential for screening alloys with desirable catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, as per quote 2, indicates that hybridization in alloys doesn't cause significant charge transfer, yet the d-band width, a descriptor of chemical reactivity, is crucial. As stated in quote 4, additional factors like local d-band filling in alloys affect the d-band center, impacting reactivity. Innovative catalyst design, as suggested by quote 14, can predict the d-band center position based on alloy geometry and d-orbital extent, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the active metal's electronic state, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and maintain simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes and altering electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects concern adsorbate interaction strength. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification's limitation on catalysis improvement suggests the need for bonding configuration perturbation. Innovative strategies, like intermetallic compounds and single-atom alloys, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while Ru with Pt strengthens it. Mixing enhances differences in CO adsorption. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, do not act bifunctionally but form a new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling of Pd clusters to substrates is analyzed through d-band LDOS, showing strong coupling for Pd3/Pd(111) and intermediate behavior for Pd3/Au(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "Literature lacks specifics on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance and strategies to exploit this for superior catalytic systems. However, the electrooxidation study on a Pt3Sn electrode highlights the relevance of alloy composition to catalytic activity, offering insights into the synergistic effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties affecting bond formation and breakage, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate analysis of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements describing atom-environment bonding. Understanding this allows for efficient calculation of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This facilitates rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface influences the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems. The electron-band theory describes group 8 metals as having an incompletely filled d band, while group 1B metals have a filled d band. The rigid band model, which describes a single d band for the alloy, has been challenged, suggesting separate d bands for each component. These insights guide the design of bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric effects influence catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating altered surface properties. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys can optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate changes in chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, validating the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially enabling the screening of alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. Unlike pure metals, alloys exhibit complex behavior due to the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer between elements, as the width of the local density of d-states on a site is a key descriptor of its reactivity. This understanding allows for the prediction of alloy sites' chemical reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. By exploiting the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, innovative strategies can be developed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band model, which has predictive capacity for pure metals, can be extended to alloys, where the d-band width, influenced by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the local chemical reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the surface geometry and electronic state of the active metal. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring specific reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, modify the electronic state, impacting catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the Pt active phase, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for alloy compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes and altering electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects concern bonding configuration, while electronic effects involve adsorbate interaction strength. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Innovative strategies, like intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for improved catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, as evidenced by electronic structure calculations that elucidate the reactivity of bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating the consideration of geometric effects alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond those of its pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt reduces CO binding energy, and bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it, enhancing differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, do not act as bifunctional catalysts but form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals significant coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance beyond that of monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-band energy differences, influenced by strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations elucidate the role of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element, facilitating the prediction of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, with reduced DFT calculations. This understanding enables rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling in alloys of group 8 and group 1B metals can affect catalytic activity, as described by Mott and Jones. Geometric factors, such as the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface, play a crucial role in determining selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific surface sites for different types of reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic systems, or bimetallic cluster catalysts, which can exhibit major selectivity effects in catalysis and have compositions outside the range possible in bulk solid solutions. These catalysts can lead to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems compared to traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the influence of geometric and electronic effects on catalytic performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloy compared to Pt(111), indicating altered reactivity and selectivity. These findings suggest that by controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Sn concentration, it may be possible to design more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys is presented, which could screen alloys for catalytic properties. This scheme incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, showing good agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys, without significant charge transfer, alters the local electronic structure, influencing chemical reactivity. The width of the local density of d-states, a unique function of alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. Understanding this relationship allows for the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band center's position, governed by the alloy's geometry and d-orbital extent, can be predicted, facilitating the development of innovative catalytic strategies. Charge transfer's ambiguity is clarified by focusing on the area under the oscillator strength curve, showing minimal d-electron transfer among alloy elements.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects improve catalysis by changing the active metal's state, controllable through the choice of a second metal. Exploiting these effects enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. PtSn alloy formation creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification by Sn increases platinum's electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Alloying modifies catalytic performance by changing surface geometry and electronic properties. Charge transfer and altered hybridization occur due to differences in orbital energies and bond distances. Understanding if geometry or electronics is more dominant for selectivity in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects alter adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering tailored reaction selectivity and tunable reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations elucidate the reactivity of bimetallic systems, revealing that interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects, alongside ensemble and ligand effects, are crucial for understanding bimetallic reactivity. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strain and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers modify electronic and chemical properties, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with species selectively adsorbing reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, enhancing differences in adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals discrete and delocalized d-band orbitals, indicating significant but varying electronic coupling.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks specific strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, demonstrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, which is crucial for understanding the interplay between geometric and electronic effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate analysis of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these principles could lead to a streamlined method for calculating d-band characteristics, reducing DFT calculation needs, and facilitating the screening of alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal changes the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface impacts selectivity, especially in reactions requiring specific active sites. Innovative strategies, like developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems. The electron-band theory describes how the d band of alloys is filled to a greater extent than in pure group 8 metals, altering electronic structure and bonding properties. However, recent views suggest separate d bands for each component, challenging the rigid band model. Surface atoms retain chemical differences, with bonding properties altered to some degree. Selectivity features of bimetallic catalysts have recently gained attention, showing that geometric factors at the surface play a crucial role in determining selectivity for reactions requiring specific surface sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights the role of electronic and geometric properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, leading to high reactant coverages at high temperatures. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys is less than on Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys can optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys is presented, which could screen alloys for catalytic properties by incorporating chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center. This parameter's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems is supported by its agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, indicating its potential for designing efficient catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not cause substantial charge transfer but affects the width of the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the prediction of relative chemical reactivity, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band center's position, influenced by the alloy's geometry and d-orbital extent, governs local chemical reactivity, offering a pathway to innovate in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. The ensemble effect, a geometric change, increases selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. For oxidation and steam reforming, they suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The formation of a PtSn alloy creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include identifying optimal alloy compositions and precisely controlling catalyst synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    