Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by surface geometry changes from particle size modification and electronic property alterations through promoter addition or alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and altered hybridization from modified bond distances. The relative importance of geometric and electronic effects on selectivity control is often unclear, but understanding the dominant factor can guide the design of superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects relate to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced selectivity and reactivity over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations elucidating underlying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties surpassing those of its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with Pt-Ru mixing affecting CO binding differently. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals varying degrees of coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance performance compared to monometallic catalysts. While the literature lacks detailed strategies, this example underscores the potential for designing more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding metal surface reactivity. The correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element offers a method to estimate d-band characteristics. This understanding could lead to a new screening technique for alloy surfaces, identifying those with desired chemical properties, significantly reducing the need for extensive DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal fills the d band more than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the surface composition, where different metal atoms retain their chemical differences, influences selectivity. Innovative strategies, like developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties of alloyed surfaces can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The study shows that less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could lead to the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys reveals the d-band center's role in catalytic properties, incorporating chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model, showing excellent agreement with DFT calculations, suggests the d-band center's significant descriptive power for alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer, is crucial for understanding alloy reactivity. The width of the d-band, a unique function of alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This insight enables the prediction of alloy site reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, achieved by modifying the active metal's state through alloying, improve catalytic properties. By choosing the right second metal, the electronic state can be controlled, creating a well-designed reaction environment. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and maintain simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, minimizing structure-sensitive reactions like coking and inhibiting coke formation by increasing the electron density of platinum. The optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods to control catalyst composition and structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate interaction strength. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification's limitations on catalysis improvement can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding varying between mixed Pt and Ru sites. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Pd clusters on Au(111) show intermediate electronic coupling, with d-band orbitals exhibiting discrete or delocalized structures.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface illustrates the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-band energy differences, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, facilitating d-band characteristic calculations for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This advancement paves the way for a rapid screening method to identify alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface influences the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties that enhance reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on adsorption and reaction. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies, suggesting that by controlling Sn concentration, the synergy between geometric and electronic effects can be exploited for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the d-band center as a parameter, demonstrates potential for screening alloys for catalytic properties. This approach incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, showing good agreement with DFT calculations, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model explains that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not significantly transfer charge between elements, but the width of the local density of d-states on a site determines its chemical reactivity. This allows for predicting alloy site reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. By understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, innovative strategies can be developed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the surface geometry and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase, suppressing undesired reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, curbing coking. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changing metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering pathways to optimize catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations aiding in understanding reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactivity. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling of Pd clusters to substrates is analyzed through d-band local density of states, showing strong coupling for Pd3/Pd(111) and intermediate behavior for Pd3/Au(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface as a relevant case study, demonstrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital coupling, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate study of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. The correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate d-band modifications. This understanding allows for the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This approach offers a rapid screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal like nickel with a group 1B metal like copper alters the d-band filling, potentially affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies include developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting optimized performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on adsorption and reaction. These findings imply that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys can lead to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, effectively incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, demonstrating the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not significantly transfer charge between elements but widens the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for predicting the reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. By understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, innovative strategies can be developed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The d-band model, effective for pure metals, can be extended to alloys considering local d-band filling and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, which are unique properties that can predict adsorption energies and chemical reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties by changing the active metal's electronic state. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, Sn modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects, enhancing activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations for alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by surface geometry changes and electronic property modifications through alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are critical, but understanding which is dominant for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate-metal surface interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band involves charge transfer and hybridization, affecting adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, reducing d-orbital density near the Fermi level. However, electronic modification's limitation on catalysis improvement necessitates geometric perturbation. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations elucidating the underlying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties surpassing those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strain and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers modify properties, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding varying between Pt and Ru sites upon mixing. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis through d-band LDOS reveals strong cluster-substrate coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) clusters showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "While literature lacks specific strategies on exploiting geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for catalysis, the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into enhanced performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms, largely due to metal d-states and adsorbate orbital coupling, are sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these principles could significantly reduce the need for DFT calculations when assessing surfaces, including alloying effects, and expedite the screening of potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling changes when a group 8 metal like nickel, with an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band. This affects the catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface influences the availability and nature of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions, optimizing the balance between electronic and geometric effects for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights the role of electronic and geometric properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy's nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene lead to high conversion rates, demonstrating the potential for optimizing catalytic performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed on the alloys to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption, indicating the influence of alloyed surfaces on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys can lead to the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which integrates changes in chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations. This supports the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer, allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on d-band width. This property, easily calculated from tabulated parameters, is crucial for understanding the chemical activity of transition and noble metals. In alloys, additional factors like local d-band filling and overlap between d-orbitals affect the d-band center, complicating the model. However, the d-band width, influenced by alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the local chemical reactivity. Understanding these relationships enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the electronic state of the active metal, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To develop a comprehensive understanding of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, minimizing sintering and hydrogenolysis, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn increases electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption and inhibiting coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations for alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and altered hybridization from changed bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. However, electronic modification may limit catalytic improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, which tailor reaction selectivity and tune reactivity, outperforming monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations revealing microscopic factors underlying reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior, acting as a novel metal. Bifunctional mechanisms are possible on bimetallic surface alloys, where different species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on metal substrates demonstrates the impact of substrate interaction on electronic properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights a gap in understanding how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. A case study on the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface offers insights into the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, suggesting a path for developing more efficient and selective catalytic systems compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains reactivity variations through the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these principles could lead to a fast screening method for alloy surfaces, allowing the calculation of d-band characteristics with fewer DFT calculations, facilitating the identification of surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling changes when a group 8 metal like nickel, with an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface influences the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new pathway for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed layers of H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD, demonstrating that electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys is significantly less than on Pt(111), indicating that surface properties of the alloy can influence reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could lead to the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, shows good agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys. This supports the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for desirable catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not cause substantial charge transfer between elements, but the width of the local density of d-states is a key descriptor of site reactivity. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the prediction of chemical reactivity, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. This insight is crucial for developing innovative strategies to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like ensemble effects and site isolation, increase selectivity by altering the surface geometry. Electronic effects modify the active metal's state, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To design superior catalytic systems, strategies should exploit these effects, focusing on phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing unwanted reactions, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The formation of smaller Pt ensembles and electronic modification by Sn inhibits coke formation, leading to an optimal Pt3Sn ratio with high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include identifying optimal alloy compositions, predicting alloying effects on performance, and precisely controlling catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. To optimize catalysis, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity beyond monometallic catalysts. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties surpassing its components, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, where distinct species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, enhancing differences in adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal, not a bifunctional catalyst. Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) demonstrate varying electronic coupling, with Au showing intermediate behavior between isolated and strongly coupled states.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-band energy differences, influenced by strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations help study electronic and geometric effects separately, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. The d-band width's correlation with interatomic matrix elements aids in estimating d-band modifications. This understanding could enable efficient calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate a fast screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling in alloys of group 8 and group 1B metals can alter catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface affects selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific sites. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption is significantly less on the alloys than on Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that by controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it may be possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance, selectivity, and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme using the surface d-band center as a parameter to estimate oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys is presented. This method incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, and its results align well with DFT calculations, indicating its potential for screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, the interplay of geometric and electronic effects enhances catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not significantly transfer charge between elements, but the width of the local density of d-states, a unique function of alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, is a key descriptor of site reactivity (Quote 2). This allows for predicting alloy site reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. The d-band center position, influenced by the alloy's geometry and d-orbital extent, governs local chemical reactivity (Quote 14). Understanding these relationships enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The lack of significant d-electron transfer among elements in alloys (Quote 11) simplifies the prediction of d-band center positions for various alloy sites, facilitating the design of improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects improve catalytic properties through the controlled change of the active metal's electronic state by selecting an appropriate second metal. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts for dehydrogenation reactions, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation, optimizing the Pt3Sn ratio for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and altered hybridization from changed bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects relate to adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as detailed in [9].", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations revealing the underlying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties surpassing those of its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding differing between mixed Pt and Ru. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, do not act bifunctionally but form a new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) demonstrates strong substrate-cluster interaction, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, demonstrating the potential for transition-metal alloys to outperform monometallic catalysts in terms of performance, selectivity, and reactivity. While specific strategies for exploiting geometric and electronic effects are not detailed in the literature, this example underscores the importance of alloy composition in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band's average energy, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Understanding modifications in electronic properties, facilitated by DFT calculations, is pivotal for explaining metal surface reactivity. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element, describing bonding interactions. This understanding could enable the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations, offering a rapid method to screen potential alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites for catalysis, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions while having a smaller effect on other reactions, highlighting the role of geometric factors in selectivity. Bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions can exhibit enhanced selectivity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the role of electronic and geometric properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys can optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which considers chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations, validating its use for screening alloys with desirable catalytic properties. This supports the notion that the d-band center is a powerful parameter for a wide range of alloy systems, potentially enhancing catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to substantial charge transfer between elements, but the width of the local density of d-states, which is easily calculable, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for predicting the relative reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. By understanding the relationship between the alloy's structure and the electronic properties of the d-band, innovative strategies can be developed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The d-band center and local chemical reactivity are largely governed by the width of the localized d-band, which is a unique function of the alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals of the metal atoms forming the alloy.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of the surface, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties by changing the active metal's electronic state. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn to Pt modifies the active phase and support, suppressing undesired reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, curbing coking. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    