Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by alloying or adding promoters. Alloying impacts electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changing metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced catalytic performance and selectivity over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding differing between mixed Pt and Ru sites. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates shows strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface as a relevant case study, demonstrating the influence of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface metal atoms, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects, are pivotal. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations can separately determine the role of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding metal surface reactivity. The correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element aids in estimating d-band characteristic modifications. Establishing this understanding could enable efficient calculation of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, significantly reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate a new screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface affects the availability of active sites for specific reactions, influencing selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions while having a smaller effect on hydrogenation and dehydrogenation. This selectivity is influenced by geometric factors, such as the number of adjacent active metal atoms required for different reactions, and electronic factors, such as the interaction between different metal atoms. By controlling surface compositions and dispersion, bimetallic catalysts can exhibit enhanced selectivity for specific reactions, outperforming traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy, with nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, achieves high reactant coverages at high temperatures, suggesting practical catalyst design strategies by controlling Sn concentration. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed on the alloys to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption, indicating the influence of surface properties on adsorption and reaction, and the potential for enhanced catalytic performance through alloy composition control.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, effectively screening alloys for catalytic properties. The model's results align well with DFT calculations, demonstrating the d-band center's descriptive power across various alloy systems, supporting its use in designing efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer, uses the width of the local density of d-states as a descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding the relationship between the alloy's geometry and d-band properties can lead to the development of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, achieved by modifying the active metal's state through alloying, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To develop efficient catalytic systems, it's crucial to understand the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, ensuring high phase purity, using inert supports, and maintaining simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The formation of smaller platinum ensembles and the electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibit coke formation, leading to an optimum Pt3Sn ratio. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and new synthesis methods for precise control of catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with dual effects: charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which is dominant for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, referring to bonding configurations (Quote 2), and electronic effects, related to adsorbate interaction strength, interplay to tailor reaction selectivity and tune reactivity. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic modification can be overcome by perturbing the bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers (Quote 9).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal microscopic factors underlying reactivity in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with one species adsorbing one reactant and the other species the other reactant. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it, enhancing differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, demonstrating enhanced performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations can separately determine electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding metal surfaces' reactivity. Correlating the surface d-band width with the interatomic matrix element aids in estimating d-band characteristic modifications. This understanding could enable efficient calculation of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, significantly reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate a rapid screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, addressing the question of innovative strategies for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can alter the d-band filling, potentially affecting the catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the selectivity of reactions that require specific active metal atom sites. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay could include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, where the geometric arrangement and electronic properties of the metal atoms are tailored to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new pathway for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed layers of H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD. This demonstrates that the electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The study shows that less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating that surface properties influence reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalyst performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, shows promise for screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties. This approach incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, with results aligning well with DFT calculations, indicating the d-band center's significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, as highlighted in quote [2], explains that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer between elements, but the width of the local density of d-states, as described in quote [4], is crucial for understanding the chemical reactivity of alloy sites. This allows for the prediction of alloy reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties, as stated in quote [14]. Innovative strategies can be developed by understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like ensemble effects and site isolation, increase selectivity by altering the catalyst surface. Electronic effects improve catalytic properties by modifying the active metal's state, controllable by the second metal. Exploiting these effects leads to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are essential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The formation of smaller platinum ensembles and the electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibit coke formation, leading to an optimum Pt3Sn ratio. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and new synthesis methods for precise control of catalyst composition and structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer and altered hybridization due to changes in bond distances between metal atoms. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which is dominant for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, related to adsorbate interaction strength, synergistically improve catalysis. Perturbation of the d-band through charge transfer and hybridization affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification may limit catalytic improvements, necessitating geometric perturbation. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal the microscopic factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Pseudomorphic overlayers' properties are modified by electronic interaction and strain, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactivity. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into enhancing performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. This example demonstrates the potential for exploiting geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for catalysis, despite the literature's lack of detailed strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, affecting bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects, are pivotal. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate determination of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. Correlating d-band width with interatomic matrix elements offers a method to estimate d-band characteristic modifications. This understanding could lead to a fast screening technique for potential alloy surfaces, calculating d-band properties with reduced DFT calculations, to identify surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating that geometric and electronic effects can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is required to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts could optimize performance for specific reactions, potentially by tuning the Sn concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This parameter's descriptive power is supported by its agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, suggesting its utility in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity of alloy sites. Without significant charge transfer, the hybridization of d-orbitals influences the width of the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity (Quote 2). Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the prediction of chemical reactivity (Quote 14), facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects improve catalytic properties through the controlled change of the active metal's electronic state by selecting an appropriate second metal. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts for dehydrogenation reactions, Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations for alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry or electronic properties through alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Electronic modification can limit catalysis improvements, necessitating adsorbate bonding configuration changes. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced control over catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations aiding in identifying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strain and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers modify properties, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding differing between mixed Pt and Ru sites. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals varied d-band local density of states, indicating strong substrate-cluster coupling.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic influences. While the literature lacks specific strategies for exploiting these effects to design superior catalytic systems, this example underscores the potential for developing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalysts compared to monometallic alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains reactivity variations through the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, facilitating the calculation of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, with reduced DFT calculations. This understanding could expedite the screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can alter the d-band filling, potentially affecting the catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the selectivity of reactions that require specific active metal atom sites. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay could include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, where the geometric arrangement and electronic properties of the metal atoms are tailored to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating the surface properties' role in adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which considers chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys. This supports the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for improved catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not significantly transfer charge between elements but widens the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the prediction of chemical reactivity, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. The d-band center's position, influenced by the alloy's geometry and d-orbital extent, governs the local chemical reactivity, offering a pathway to outperform monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, while the electronic effect modifies the active metal's state, improving catalytic properties. These effects can be exploited to design superior catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, and suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and improving coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations, and precise synthesis methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification may limit catalytic improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies, like intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for superior catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu systems exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. Strain and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers modify electronic and chemical properties, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactant adsorption. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while Ru with Pt strengthens it, increasing differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate-cluster coupling, with Au-supported clusters exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into enhancing performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. While specific strategies for exploiting geometric and electronic effects are not detailed in the literature, this example demonstrates the potential for designing more efficient catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is determined by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. The d-band model attributes coupling variations to differences in metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations can separately determine electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. The correlation between surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element aids in estimating d-band modifications. Establishing this understanding enables calculating d-band characteristics for surfaces, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This facilitates a new screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD, highlighting the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, leading to high reactant coverages at high temperatures. This synergy can be exploited in practical catalysts by controlling Sn concentration, suggesting that by tuning the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, enhanced catalytic performance can be achieved.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center as a parameter, incorporating chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This parameter has significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, as evidenced by the model's good agreement with DFT calculations on numerous binary alloys, supporting its potential for screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by influencing the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer, is crucial for predicting alloy reactivity based on d-band width. This understanding enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band center's position, governed by alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, can be predicted, facilitating the development of innovative strategies to enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Geometrically, the ensemble effect increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of active metals. Electronically, the active metal's state can be modified by intermetallic phases, enhancing catalytic properties. These effects can be exploited to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. For instance, intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites and modify adsorption properties for selective (de)hydrogenation, and they can suppress side reactions, improve stability, and provide O2 adsorption sites for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, Sn modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. This balance enhances activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Alloying modifies catalytic performance by changing surface geometry and electronic properties. Charge transfer and altered hybridization occur due to differences in orbital energies and bond distances. The dominant factor for selectivity in specific reactions is often unclear, but understanding this can guide the design of superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate-metal surface interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band involves charge transfer and hybridization, affecting adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, depleting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. However, electronic modification may limit catalysis improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as highlighted in recent literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. The reactivity of these systems is governed by an interplay of electronic and geometric effects, which are challenging to disentangle experimentally. Electronic structure calculations help identify the microscopic factors underlying reactivity. Modifications of interatomic distances significantly affect catalytic activity, and geometric effects should be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt leads to a downshift of the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing differences in CO adsorption energies between components. The PdCu interaction leads to a weaker CO binding to Pd and a stronger interaction with Cu, forming a relatively homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis reveals the strength of interaction between clusters and substrates, demonstrating significant coupling in supported clusters.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. The d-band model attributes reactivity variations to the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these principles could streamline d-band characteristic calculations for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing reliance on DFT. This would facilitate rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloys of group 8 metals (with incompletely filled d bands) and group 1B metals (with filled d bands) have a d band filled to a greater extent than the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface influences the availability and nature of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties that enhance reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting optimized performance through Sn concentration control. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction. These findings imply that by controlling composition and structure, transition-metal alloys can be designed for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center as a parameter to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model shows good agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems, which is crucial for understanding catalytic properties and potentially designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not cause substantial charge transfer between elements, but the width of the d-band, a unique function of alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, governs the local chemical reactivity. This understanding enables the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties, facilitating the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems. Innovative strategies can be developed by exploiting the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, outperforming monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometrically, the ensemble effect increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, while electronic effects improve catalytic properties by altering the active metal's electronic state through the choice of a second metal. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn to Pt-based catalysts suppresses hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizes metal sintering, and facilitates coke species diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for alloy compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for catalyst control.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by adding promoters or forming alloys. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Understanding if geometric or electronic effects dominate selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band involves charge transfer and hybridization, affecting adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, influencing d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by altering adsorbate bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as per quote 9.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu systems exhibit properties beyond pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactivity. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while Ru with Pt strengthens it, enhancing differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface demonstrates the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, illustrating the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic factors. This example highlights the potential for designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts, despite the literature's lack of detailed strategies on exploiting these effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains reactivity variations through metal d-states and adsorbate orbital coupling. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate analysis of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, facilitating the calculation of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This approach offers a rapid screening method for identifying alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, with an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, potentially affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis, leading to selectivity effects. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, potentially leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy, with nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, achieves high reactant coverages at high temperatures, suggesting practical catalysts could be optimized by controlling Sn concentration. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed on the alloys to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption compared to Pt(111), indicating the alloyed surface's influence on adsorption and reaction processes. These findings imply that by controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it may be possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center as a parameter, incorporating chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This parameter's agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys validates its descriptive power for alloy systems, supporting its use in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not lead to substantial charge transfer but influences the width of the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity (Quote 2). This allows for predicting the reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. In alloys, additional factors like electronic charge transfer and changes in local d-band filling affect the d-band center position, impacting catalytic activity (Quote 4). The d-band center's position is largely determined by the width of the localized d-band, which is a function of alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals (Quote 14). Since bond distances and orbital extents can be predicted, the d-band center's position for various alloy sites can also be forecasted, facilitating the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems (Quote 15). Understanding these relationships enables the development of innovative strategies to outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometrically, the ensemble effect increases selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size, favoring allowed reactions. Electronically, the active metal's state is modified, improving catalytic properties, with the choice of the second metal being crucial. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts for dehydrogenation reactions, Sn addition synergistically influences catalytic performance by modifying the active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The formation of PtSn alloys creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn increases electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    