Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloying or adding promoters. Alloying impacts electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altering metal bonding hybridization from changes in bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects alter adsorbate interaction strength. Perturbation of the d-band through charge transfer and hybridization changes adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification may limit catalytic improvements, necessitating bonding configuration perturbation. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers to exploit this interplay.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. PtRu and PdCu exemplify this, with PtRu exhibiting properties beyond its components and PdCu showing intermediate behavior. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt reduces CO binding energy, while interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, where different species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts due to strong Cu-Pd interaction. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals discrete and delocalized d-band orbitals, indicating significant but varying electronic coupling strength.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements between adsorbates and surface atoms. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band's average energy, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Understanding modifications in electronic properties, facilitated by DFT calculations, is pivotal for explaining metal surface reactivity. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate d-band characteristic modifications. Establishing this understanding could enable efficient calculation of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, significantly reducing DFT calculation needs. This would offer a novel, expedient screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can alter the d-band filling, potentially affecting the catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay could include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, where the geometric arrangement and electronic properties of the metal atoms are tailored to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) demonstrates the synergistic influence of geometric and electronic effects on catalytic performance, opening a new hydrogenation pathway and selectively producing butene. This suggests that the electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter reactivity and selectivity. The study shows that less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating the surface properties influence reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings imply that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could lead to the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, demonstrates the potential to screen alloys for desirable catalytic properties. This approach effectively incorporates changes in chemical composition, strain effects, and ligand effects, showing good agreement with DFT calculations across various binary alloys, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, the synergistic effects of geometry and electronics enhance catalytic performance. The hybridization of d-orbitals doesn't lead to significant charge transfer but influences the chemical reactivity through the width of the local density of d-states, a key descriptor. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties allows for the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems, outperforming monometallic catalysts. As stated, 'the width of the local density of d-states projected on a site is an excellent descriptor of the chemical reactivity of the site' (Quote 2), and 'the change in the position of the local d-band center is governed by the width of the localized d-band, which is a unique function of the alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals' (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like ensemble effects, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects modify the active metal's state, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. Understanding intermetallic catalysts requires high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation, increasing electron density and weakening ethylidyne adsorption. This balance results in high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict performance, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by surface geometry changes and electronic property modifications through alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altered metal bonding hybridization from changed bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, the dominant factor for selectivity in specific reactions is often unclear, yet understanding this can guide the design of superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, related to adsorbate interaction strength, are pivotal. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. However, electronic effects may limit catalytic improvements if all reactants and products are similarly impacted. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies, like intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations elucidating underlying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactivity. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, increasing differences in adsorption energies. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis reveals the influence of substrate interaction on Pd clusters.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on exploiting geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode as a relevant case, demonstrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals, crucial for catalytic performance, is governed by surface properties including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms are attributed to d-band energy differences, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on these properties. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate modifications in d-band characteristics. Understanding these modifications could lead to a fast screening method for alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, significantly reducing the need for extensive DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal, potentially affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis, leading to selectivity effects. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, potentially leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the role of geometric and electronic effects in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that by controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts, optimized performance for specific reactions can be achieved, potentially leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations, validating its use in screening alloys for catalytic properties. This supports the notion that the d-band center is a powerful parameter for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not cause substantial charge transfer between elements, but the width of the d-band, easily calculable from tabulated parameters, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for predicting the reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. In alloys, the d-band center's position, and thus the local chemical reactivity, is governed by the d-band width, which is a function of alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals. This understanding enables the development of innovative strategies to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys, exemplified by PtSn catalysts, enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding the dominant factor for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, as explained in quote [3], involves charge transfer and hybridization changes, affecting adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic structure calculations help identify factors underlying reactivity, while geometric effects influence catalytic activity. Ensemble and ligand effects must be considered alongside geometric effects. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction effects is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy, and bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong substrate-cluster coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. While the literature lacks specific strategies, this example demonstrates potential avenues for designing more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations elucidate electronic and geometric effects separately, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. Correlating d-band width and interatomic matrix elements reveals bonding interactions, enabling d-band characteristic calculations for any surface, reducing DFT needs. This understanding facilitates rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling in alloys of group 8 and group 1B metals, such as nickel and copper, can influence catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface affects selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific surface sites. Innovative strategies, like the development of highly dispersed bimetallic systems, can exploit this interplay, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions while having a smaller effect on other reactions. This selectivity is influenced by geometric factors and electronic interactions between different metal atoms. Highly dispersed bimetallic clusters can have compositions outside the range of bulk solid solutions, enhancing selectivity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the role of geometric and electronic effects in enhancing catalytic performance. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption is significantly reduced on the alloy compared to Pt(111), indicating altered surface reactivity. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts could optimize their performance for specific reactions, potentially leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This parameter effectively screens alloys for catalytic properties, with results aligning well with DFT calculations, demonstrating the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys, without significant charge transfer, influences the width of the local density of d-states, a critical descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. Innovative strategies can be developed by exploiting this interplay, leading to enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties by changing the active metal's electronic state. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, and facilitating coke species diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry and electronic properties through alloying. Alloying affects electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and altering hybridization due to changes in bond distances. Understanding if geometric or electronic effects dominate selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. PtRu alloys exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, enhancing differences in adsorption energies. PdCu interaction weakens CO binding to Pd and strengthens it with Cu, forming a homogeneous new metal. Electronic coupling between Pd clusters and substrates, as seen in Pd3/Au(111), shows intermediate behavior with some localized and some delocalized states. These effects offer possibilities for bifunctional mechanisms, improving catalytic systems over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically boost catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity over monometallic catalysts. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations enable the separate study of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. The correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element helps estimate d-band characteristic modifications. Establishing this understanding could lead to a fast screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, significantly reducing the need for DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal fills the d band more than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the surface composition, where different metal atoms retain their chemical differences, influences selectivity. Innovative strategies, like developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloy compared to Pt(111), indicating altered surface reactivity. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts could optimize their performance for specific reactions, potentially by adjusting the Sn concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys using the surface d-band center as a parameter demonstrates significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems. This method, which incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, aligns well with DFT calculations, suggesting its potential for screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not lead to substantial charge transfer but affects the width of the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties can lead to the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems, outperforming monometallic catalysts. For a fixed site geometry, the width of the d-band and the d-band center, which governs local chemical reactivity, are uniquely determined by the spatial extent of d-orbitals. When two transition metals form an alloy, changes in the d-band center position are largely governed by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, enabling the prediction of chemical reactivity for various alloy sites.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the electronic state of the active metal, improving catalytic properties. Exploiting these effects can lead to the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions by suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The electronic modification of Pt by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altered hybridization from changes in bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, the dominant factor for selectivity control in specific reactions is often unclear, yet understanding this can guide the design of superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, related to adsorbate interaction strength, interplay to tune reactivity. Perturbation of the d-band involves charge transfer and hybridization, affecting adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Electronic modification, while beneficial, has limitations, necessitating geometric perturbation. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for improved catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations revealing underlying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by substrate interaction and strain, complicating experimental distinction. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding varying between Pt and Ru sites. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate-cluster coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on exploiting geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating how alloy composition can synergistically influence catalytic activity, efficiency, and selectivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate analysis of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these principles allows for the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This facilitates a rapid screening method for identifying alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface influences the availability of active sites for different reactions, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions, can exploit this interplay to enhance catalytic systems' efficiency, selectivity, and tunability. According to electron-band theory, group 8 metals like nickel have an incompletely filled d band, while group 1B metals like copper have a filled d band. Alloying these metals results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, potentially altering catalytic activity. However, recent views suggest separate d bands for each component, with surface atoms retaining chemical differences. The surface composition of bimetallic catalysts often differs from the bulk, affecting catalytic properties. Bimetallic clusters, with compositions outside the range of bulk solid solutions, exhibit enhanced selectivity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties. The (2 × 2) alloy shows nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, leading to high reactant coverages at high temperatures. This synergy can be exploited in catalyst design by controlling Sn concentration. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed on the alloys to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption, indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction dynamics. These findings suggest that by controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it may be possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance, selectivity, and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, reveals the synergistic influence of geometric and electronic effects on catalytic performance. This model, which incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, demonstrating the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially enabling the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. Unlike pure metals, predicting the reactivity of alloys is complex due to additional factors like electronic charge transfer and changes in d-band filling. However, the d-band model, which posits that hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to significant charge transfer, offers a predictive framework. The width of the local density of d-states, easily calculable, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This understanding enables the prediction of relative chemical reactivity based on alloy geometry and electronic properties, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band center's position in alloys is governed by the width of the localized d-band, which is a function of alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, allowing for the prediction of chemical reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the surface geometry and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size, favoring specific reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, can drastically change the electronic state, affecting adsorption and activation barriers. Intermetallic phases provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn to Pt modifies the active phase and support, suppressing unwanted reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn increases electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is modified by surface geometry changes and electronic property alterations through alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in selectivity for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to similar reactant and product strength changes can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as per recent literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu systems exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strain effects and electronic interactions are hard to distinguish in pseudomorphic overlayers. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with species selectively adsorbing reactants. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates shows strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) clusters exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance performance compared to monometallic catalysts. While literature lacks specific strategies for exploiting this interplay, this example demonstrates potential avenues for designing more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations can separately determine electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. The correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element aids in estimating d-band modifications. Establishing this understanding reduces the need for extensive DFT calculations, enabling fast screening of potential alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface influences selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific active sites. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can exploit this interplay, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. According to electron-band theory, a group 8 metal like nickel has an incompletely filled d band, while a group 1B metal like copper has a filled d band. Alloying these metals results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, impacting catalytic activity. Geometric factors, such as the number of adjacent active metal atoms required for different reactions, play a crucial role in determining selectivity. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Highly dispersed bimetallic clusters can have compositions outside the range of bulk solid solutions, enhancing selectivity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD. This highlights the role of electronic and geometric properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys can optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys is presented, which could be used to screen alloys for improved catalytic properties. This scheme integrates the effects of chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, a parameter with significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, supporting the exploitation of geometric and electronic effects for enhanced catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the chemical reactivity based on the width of the local density of d-states, is applicable to alloys without significant charge transfer between elements. This allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band center's position in alloys is governed by the alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, which can be predicted, facilitating the development of innovative catalytic strategies.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. The ensemble effect, a geometric change, increases selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the active metal's state, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The formation of PtSn alloys creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and new synthesis methods for precise control of catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry and electronic properties through particle size changes, promoter addition, or alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, understanding the dominant factor for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in electronic modification can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced catalytic performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations aiding in identifying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt reduces CO binding energy, and bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals significant coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface illustrates how alloy composition impacts catalytic activity, shedding light on the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic influences in transition-metal alloys, which are crucial for designing superior catalytic systems compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects, are pivotal. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate modifications in d-band properties. Understanding these modifications could lead to a new screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, significantly reducing the need for DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties that affect reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption is significantly less on the alloys than on Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene was observed on the (2 × 2) alloy, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, leading to high reactant coverages at high temperatures. This synergy could be exploited in practical catalysts by controlling Sn concentration, suggesting that by carefully controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts, it may be possible to optimize their performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which considers chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, supporting the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems. This model could be used to screen alloys for desirable catalytic properties, potentially leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer, is pivotal. The width of the local density of d-states, a unique property of alloy sites, predicts their chemical reactivity. Understanding this relationship allows for the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. Innovative strategies can be developed by leveraging the alloy's geometric structure and electronic properties to optimize the d-band center, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of the surface, while electronic effects improve catalytic properties through controlled changes in the active metal's state. Exploiting these effects can lead to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. For instance, intermetallic phases can provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, and can suppress side reactions, improve stability, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing unwanted reactions, minimizing metal sintering, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The formation of PtSn alloys creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and new synthesis methods for precise control of catalyst composition and structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    