Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as highlighted in recent literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Bimetallic systems exhibit unique properties beyond those of monometallic components, influenced by interatomic distances and electronic interactions. PtRu shows enhanced reactivity, while PdCu acts as a novel metal with intermediate properties. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying factors of reactivity, highlighting the importance of considering geometric, ensemble, and ligand effects. The strong interaction between Ru and Pt reduces CO binding energy, demonstrating the impact of electronic coupling. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, where different species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences in adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows varied d-band local density of states, indicating the role of substrate interaction in catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into enhancing performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. While specific strategies for exploiting geometric and electronic effects are not detailed in the literature, this example demonstrates potential avenues for designing superior catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band's average energy, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Understanding modifications in electronic properties, facilitated by DFT calculations, is pivotal for explaining metal surfaces' reactivity. Correlating d-band width with interatomic matrix elements can estimate d-band characteristics, enabling efficient calculation for any surface, including alloying effects, with reduced DFT reliance. This approach offers a rapid screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling in alloys of group 8 and group 1B metals can alter catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface can determine selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific surface sites. Innovative strategies, such as the development of highly dispersed bimetallic systems, can exploit this interplay, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. The rigid band model suggests a single d band for the alloy, while recent views propose separate d bands for each component, affecting the surface composition and bonding properties. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Geometric factors, like the number of adjacent active metal atoms required for different reactions, play a crucial role in selectivity. Highly dispersed bimetallic clusters can have compositions outside the range of bulk solid solutions, enhancing selectivity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy, with nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, achieves high reactant coverages at high temperatures, suggesting practical catalysts could be optimized by controlling Sn concentration. The reduced amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys, compared to Pt(111), indicates the surface properties of the alloy can influence adsorption and reaction, offering potential for designing more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which considers chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations, validating its use in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not lead to significant charge transfer but influences the width of the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. By understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, innovative strategies can be developed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The d-band center and chemical reactivity are determined by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, enabling the prediction of chemical reactivity for various sites in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a type of geometric effect, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of metal atoms. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties. Exploiting these effects leads to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn increases Pt electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in transition-metal alloys is enhanced by surface geometry changes and electronic property modifications. Alloying impacts electronic properties through charge transfer between elements and changes in metal bonding hybridization due to altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, understanding which is more dominant for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by altering the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as per quote 9.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations aiding in identifying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties surpassing those of its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding varying between Pt and Ru. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis through d-band LDOS reveals strong cluster-substrate coupling for Pd3/Pd(111) and intermediate behavior for Pd3/Au(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks specific strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. However, the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface demonstrates the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into this interplay.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals, influenced by surface properties like the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, is pivotal for catalytic performance. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms, largely due to d-state coupling, are sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Understanding modifications in electronic properties, facilitated by DFT calculations, is critical. A correlation between d-band width and interatomic matrix elements can estimate d-band characteristics, potentially reducing DFT calculation needs. This could lead to a new screening method for alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling in alloys of group 8 and group 1B metals can alter catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface can affect the availability and nature of active sites for different reactions, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. The interplay between these effects can be exploited by designing catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, enhancing catalytic performance beyond that of traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the role of geometric and electronic effects in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts can optimize performance for specific reactions, potentially leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys using the surface d-band center as a parameter shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, supporting its use in screening alloys for improved catalytic properties. This approach incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, demonstrating the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, the interplay between geometric and electronic effects enhances catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer, is pivotal in predicting the chemical reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. This understanding enables the development of strategies to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The width of the local density of d-states, a unique function of alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the local chemical reactivity and can be predicted, facilitating the creation of advanced catalytic materials.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like ensemble effects, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, while electronic effects improve catalytic properties by altering the electronic state of the active metal. Intermetallic phases can provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, and can suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To develop a comprehensive understanding of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable. Innovative strategies can be developed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis, isomerization, and minimizing metal sintering. It neutralizes support acidity and facilitates coke species diffusion, creating smaller platinum ensembles that curb coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by surface geometry changes due to particle size modification and electronic property alterations through alloying. Alloying impacts electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changing metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, referring to bonding configuration (Quote 2), and electronic effects, related to adsorbate interaction strength, influence d-band perturbation through charge transfer and hybridization. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting adsorbate binding strength, but may limit catalysis improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be perturbed. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers (Quote 9).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations elucidate the reactivity of bimetallic systems, revealing that interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu systems exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Pseudomorphic overlayers' properties are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction effects is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates shows strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, which is pertinent to understanding the synergistic effects sought in designing superior catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Understanding d-band modifications in relation to electronic and geometric effects is pivotal for explaining metal surface reactivity. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate determination of these effects. The d-band width and interatomic matrix element correlation can estimate d-band characteristic changes. Establishing this understanding reduces the need for extensive DFT calculations, facilitating rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties that influence catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion to butene on the (2 × 2) alloy, due to matching desorption activation energies, suggests practical catalysts can exploit this synergy by controlling Sn concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center as a parameter, incorporating chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model's results align well with DFT calculations, indicating the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for improved catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, a unique function of alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, is a critical descriptor of site reactivity. Hybridization of d-orbitals does not significantly alter charge transfer between elements, allowing for the prediction of alloy site reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding these relationships enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band model, predictive for pure metals, can be extended to alloys, considering additional factors like local d-band filling and charge transfer complexities.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, enhances selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of the active metal surface. Electronic effects, achieved by modifying the active metal's electronic state through alloying, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To design superior catalytic systems, strategies should focus on exploiting these effects, ensuring high phase purity, using inert supports or bulk materials, and maintaining simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts for dehydrogenation reactions, Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy or partial tin coverage creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification by Sn increases platinum's electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption, and inhibiting coke formation. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by surface geometry changes and electronic property modifications through alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, understanding the dominant factor for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects relate to adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation includes charge transfer and hybridization, affecting adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Electronic modification of adsorbate binding strength can limit catalysis improvements. To overcome this, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as per quote 9.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal the microscopic factors underlying the reactivity of bimetallic systems. Modifying interatomic distances significantly affects catalytic activity, necessitating the consideration of geometric effects alongside ensemble and ligand effects. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt reduces CO binding energy, and bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to an intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties due to strong Cu-Pd interaction. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates demonstrates the influence of substrate interaction on cluster properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity. While specific strategies for exploiting geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys are not detailed, this example provides insight into enhanced catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals, crucial for catalytic performance, is governed by surface properties including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms are attributed to d-band energy differences, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation between d-band width and interatomic matrix elements can estimate modifications in d-band properties. Understanding these principles could facilitate the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This would streamline the screening of potential alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface influences selectivity, especially in reactions requiring specific active sites. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems. The electron-band theory describes how the d band of an alloy is filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, impacting catalysis. However, recent views suggest separate d bands for each component, challenging the rigid band model. The surface composition of bimetallic catalysts often differs from the bulk, with implications for catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights the influence of electronic and geometric properties on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property effects on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts could optimize performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate effects of chemical composition, strain, and ligand changes, demonstrating remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, suggesting its broad applicability and potential for screening alloys with desirable catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, a unique function of alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the position of the d-band center and thus the local chemical reactivity. Unlike in pure metals, alloy formation does not lead to significant charge transfer between elements, but the hybridization of d-orbitals affects the d-band width. This understanding enables the prediction of alloy reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the surface geometry and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of metal atoms. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions by suppressing hydrogenolysis, isomerization, and metal sintering, while facilitating coke species diffusion. The Pt3Sn ratio optimally balances these effects, leading to high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods to control catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Alloying transition metals modifies catalytic performance through changes in surface geometry and electronic properties. This involves charge transfer between alloying elements and altered hybridization due to changed bond distances, impacting selectivity and reactivity. Understanding the dominant factor for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts, outperforming monometallic counterparts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate-metal surface interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. However, electronic modification's impact on adsorbate binding strength may limit catalytic improvements. To overcome this, perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration is necessary. Innovative strategies, such as intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. Electronic structure calculations reveal the microscopic factors underlying the reactivity of bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, and geometric effects must be considered alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu systems exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu systems show intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain effects from electronic interactions is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, where different species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it, enhancing differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) clusters exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, which is relevant to understanding synergistic effects in alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-band energy differences, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Understanding electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics is pivotal for explaining metal surface reactivity. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate analysis of these effects. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. This understanding could streamline d-band characteristic calculations for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT reliance. Consequently, a new method for screening potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties could be developed.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD, demonstrating the influence of geometric and electronic changes on catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting optimized performance through controlled Sn concentration. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating the alloyed surface's impact on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings imply that by controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it may be possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance, selectivity, and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which integrates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations, validating its descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems. This supports the notion that the d-band center is a key parameter in understanding and potentially enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the chemical reactivity based on the width of the local density of d-states, is predictive for pure metals and can be extended to alloys. In alloys, hybridization of d-orbitals does not lead to significant charge transfer, but changes in the d-band width due to alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals govern the local chemical reactivity. This understanding enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts by exploiting the synergistic effects of geometry and electronics in transition-metal alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the electronic state of the active metal. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, while electronic effects improve catalytic properties through the controlled modification of the active metal's state. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, and can suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The formation of PtSn alloys creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Alloying transition metals modifies catalytic performance by changing surface geometry and electronic properties. Charge transfer and altered hybridization occur due to differences in orbital energies and bond distances. Understanding if geometry or electronics is more dominant for selectivity in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Electronic modification can limit catalytic improvements, necessitating geometric perturbation of adsorbates. Strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced control over catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying factors of bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects, ensemble effects, and ligand effects must be considered together for bimetallic reactivity. PtRu systems exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu systems show intermediate behavior. Strain effects and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers are hard to distinguish experimentally. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing reactant adsorption. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it, increasing CO adsorption energy differences. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong cluster-substrate coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into enhancing performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals, crucial for catalytic performance, is determined by surface properties including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface metal atoms, influenced by the d-band's average energy, are sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations can separately determine the role of electronic and geometric effects, essential for understanding surface reactivity. The correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate modifications in d-band characteristics. Establishing this understanding would significantly reduce the need for DFT calculations, enabling efficient screening of potential alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability and nature of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the role of electronic and geometric effects in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts could optimize their performance for specific reactions, potentially leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which integrates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, supporting the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems. This scheme could be used to screen alloys for desirable catalytic properties, potentially leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. According to the d-band model (quote 3), the width of the local density of d-states on a site (quote 2) is a critical descriptor of chemical reactivity, unaffected by significant charge transfer between elements (quote 4). This allows for predicting the chemical reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. When two transition metals form an alloy, the d-band center's position, and thus the local chemical reactivity, is largely determined by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals (quote 14). Understanding these relationships enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, achieved by changing the active metal's state through intermetallic phases, improve catalytic properties, controllable by selecting the second metal. Exploiting these effects leads to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn increases Pt's electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer and altered hybridization due to varying bond distances between metals. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Electronic modification can limit catalytic improvements, necessitating geometric perturbation of adsorbates. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering pathways to break from limitations and enhance catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects, ensemble effects, and ligand effects must be considered together. PtRu systems exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu systems show intermediate behavior. Strain effects and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers are challenging to distinguish experimentally. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, where different species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties, not acting as bifunctional catalysts. Electronic coupling analysis in Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates shows strong coupling with the substrate, with intermediate behavior in Au-supported clusters.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance performance compared to monometallic catalysts. While specific strategies for exploiting this interplay in designing superior catalytic systems are not detailed in the literature, this example underscores the potential for developing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms, crucial for understanding metal surfaces' reactivity. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate study of electronic and geometric effects, while the correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element helps estimate d-band modifications. This understanding could lead to a new screening method for potential alloy surfaces, significantly reducing DFT calculations and identifying surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface influences the availability and nature of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions, optimizing the balance between electronic and geometric effects for enhanced catalytic performance. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions while having a smaller effect on other reactions, demonstrating the role of geometric factors. Bimetallic cluster catalysts, with compositions outside the range of bulk solid solutions, exhibit enhanced selectivity for specific reactions, outperforming traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how geometric and electronic effects influence catalytic performance. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting optimized reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating altered surface properties. These findings imply that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts can optimize their performance for specific reactions, potentially leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This parameter's agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys validates its descriptive power for screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties, supporting strategies to design superior catalysts compared to monometallic ones.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which predicts chemical reactivity based on the width of the local density of d-states, is applicable to alloys. Unlike pure metals, alloys exhibit additional factors like d-band filling changes due to hybridization without significant charge transfer between elements. This allows for the prediction of alloy reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties, enabling the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometrically, ensemble effects increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size, favoring allowed reactions. Electronically, the active metal's state is modified, improving catalytic properties, controllable by the choice of a second metal. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, adsorption property modification, and molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based transition-metal alloys, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions, surpassing monometallic catalysts. The addition of Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, minimizing sintering and coke formation. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects, maximizing activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structures.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    