Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by surface geometry changes and electronic property modifications through alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Understanding if geometric or electronic effects dominate selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by altering adsorbate bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond those of its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with one species adsorbing one reactant and the other species adsorbing another for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates shows strong coupling with the substrate, with supported Pd3/Au(111) clusters exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "Literature lacks specifics on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically boost catalytic performance and strategies for their exploitation. An example is the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital coupling, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Understanding electronic property modifications due to geometric and electronic effects is pivotal for explaining metal surface reactivity. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate determination of these effects. The correlation between surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element aids in estimating d-band characteristic changes. Establishing this understanding could facilitate calculating d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with reduced DFT calculations, offering a new screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal fills the d band more than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface influence the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, like developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new pathway for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights the role of electronic and geometric properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys is significantly less than on Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on adsorption and reaction. By controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it's possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance. The highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene was observed on the (2 × 2) alloy, suggesting that the synergy between electronic and geometric effects can be exploited in practical catalysts by controlling the Sn concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, incorporating chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows promise for screening alloys for catalytic properties. The model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, indicating the d-band center's significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The width of the local density of d-states, influenced by d-orbital hybridization without significant charge transfer, is a key descriptor of reactivity. Predicting the relative reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties allows for the design of more efficient and selective catalytic systems. Innovative strategies can exploit the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties to outperform monometallic catalysts. The position of the d-band center, governed by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, can be predicted, facilitating the design of improved catalysts. Charge transfer ambiguities, primarily involving s/p electrons, do not significantly affect d-band filling but are important for a comprehensive understanding of electronic effects in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, altering the active metal's state, improve catalytic properties, controllable by the second metal's choice. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are ideal.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, and neutralizing support acidity. Smaller platinum ensembles formed by PtSn alloying curb structure-sensitive reactions like coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal PtSn ratio achieves high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and new synthesis methods for precise control of catalyst structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in transition-metal alloys is enhanced by synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Alloying modifies electronic properties, facilitating charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and altering hybridization from changes in bond distances. Understanding if geometry or electronics is dominant for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, involving bonding configuration (Quote 2), and electronic effects, related to adsorbate interaction strength, perturb the d-band through charge transfer and hybridization. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. To optimize catalysis, adsorbate bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers (Quote 9).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate-cluster coupling.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. While specific strategies for exploiting this interplay are not detailed in the literature, this example demonstrates potential avenues for developing more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains reactivity variations through metal d-states and adsorbate orbital coupling. Density functional theory (DFT) allows separate analysis of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. Correlating d-band width and interatomic matrix elements can estimate d-band characteristic modifications. This understanding enables efficient calculation of d-band properties for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This fast screening method can identify alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal like nickel with a group 1B metal like copper changes the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems. The addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease activity for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions while having a smaller effect on hydrogenation and dehydrogenation. This selectivity is influenced by geometric factors like the number of adjacent active metal atoms required for different reactions. Highly dispersed bimetallic clusters can have compositions outside the range of bulk solid solutions, enhancing selectivity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting the importance of controlling Sn concentration for optimized performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings imply that by controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it may be possible to design more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center as a parameter, incorporating changes in chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, indicating the d-band center's descriptive power for alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for improved catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. Unlike pure metals, alloys exhibit complex behavior due to d-orbital hybridization without significant charge transfer, making the width of the local density of d-states a critical descriptor of chemical reactivity (Quote 2). This allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties, differentiating alloys from monometallic catalysts (Quote 3). The d-band width, influenced by alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the local d-band center's position, crucial for understanding the alloy's chemical reactivity (Quote 4, 14). Innovative strategies in catalyst design can exploit these synergistic effects to create more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like the ensemble effect, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects modify the active metal's state, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple conditions are ideal.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase, suppressing unwanted reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, curbing coking. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes and altering electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as per quote [9].", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal microscopic factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strain and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers modify properties, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding differences between Pt and Ru sites. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate coupling, with Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface demonstrates the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, illustrating how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-bands' average energy, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate study of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics, crucial for understanding metal surface reactivity. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. This understanding could streamline the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate a rapid screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, impacting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface affects selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific sites. Innovative strategies, like developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems. The rigid band model, which suggests a single d band for the alloy, has been challenged by the view of separate d bands for each component, affecting surface composition and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy, with nearly matching desorption activation energies for H2 and 1,3-butadiene, achieves high reactant coverages at high temperatures, suggesting potential for practical catalyst optimization by controlling Sn concentration. The reduced hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys, compared to Pt(111), indicates surface property influence on adsorption and reaction of reactants, highlighting the potential for designing more efficient and selective catalytic systems by controlling alloy composition and structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, potentially screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties. The model's results align well with DFT calculations, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, not significant charge transfer, is a key descriptor of reactivity. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties allows for the prediction of chemical reactivity, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. The lack of significant d-electron transfer between elements in alloys simplifies the prediction of d-band center positions, which governs local chemical reactivity. This knowledge can be harnessed to outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Geometrically, the ensemble effect increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size of the active metal, while electronic effects enhance catalytic properties through the modification of the active metal's electronic state, controllable by the choice of a second metal. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while for oxidation and steam reforming, they suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors of active components. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, Sn modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn increases electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloying. Alloying impacts electronic properties, facilitating charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altering hybridization due to changes in bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, involving adsorbate interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering pathways to optimize catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic interaction and strain modify pseudomorphic overlayer properties. Experimentally distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the local d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt with Ru weakens CO binding, while mixing Ru with Pt strengthens it. Mixing enhances differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling of Pd clusters to substrates is analyzed through d-band local density of states (LDOS). Free Pd3 clusters have discrete peaks, while Pd3/Pd(111) clusters show strong coupling. Supported Pd3/Au(111) clusters exhibit intermediate behavior with localized and delocalized orbitals.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which determine bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface atoms are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital coupling, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width for transition metals and the interatomic matrix element, describing bonding interactions. Understanding this allows for the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This facilitates a new, efficient screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface influences selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific sites. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can exploit this interplay for enhanced catalytic performance and selectivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, leading to high reactant coverages at high temperatures. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts can optimize performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, incorporates changes in chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This model's agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys supports the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially enabling the screening of alloys for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band model, which describes the chemical reactivity based on the width of the local density of d-states, is crucial for understanding alloy behavior. Unlike pure metals, alloys involve additional factors such as changes in local d-band filling due to hybridization, without significant charge transfer between elements. The d-band width, influenced by alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, governs the local chemical reactivity. This insight enables the prediction of alloy reactivity and the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. Innovative strategies can be developed by leveraging the relationship between alloy geometry and electronic properties, optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the electronic state of the active metal, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. PtSn alloy formation and electronic modification of Pt by Sn create smaller Pt ensembles, inhibiting coking and increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. This balance leads to high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by alloying or adding promoters. Alloying impacts electronic properties, facilitating charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altering metal bonding hybridization due to changed bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects alter adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to similar reactant and product strength changes can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers to exploit this interplay.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations aiding in identifying factors underlying reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond those of its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic interaction between substrate and overlayers, along with strain, modifies pseudomorphic overlayer properties. Experimentally distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding varying between mixed Pt and Ru sites. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong substrate-cluster coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, which is crucial for developing more efficient catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations elucidate electronic and geometric effects separately, while the correlation between surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element estimates d-band modifications. Understanding these principles could enable efficient calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This facilitates rapid screening of alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal alters the d-band filling, potentially affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis, leading to selectivity effects. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, where the geometric arrangement and electronic properties of the metal atoms are tailored to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions. This can lead to the development of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) demonstrates that altered electronic and geometric properties can open new pathways for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting that controlling Sn concentration can optimize performance. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction. These findings imply that by controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it may be possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance, selectivity, and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, demonstrates the potential to screen alloys for catalytic properties. This approach incorporates changes in chemical composition, strain effects, and ligand effects. The model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, indicating the d-band center's significant descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, a unique function of alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, serves as an excellent descriptor of chemical reactivity, allowing for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their structure and electronic properties. This understanding paves the way for innovative strategies in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The d-band model, applicable to pure metals, can be extended to alloys, where the change in the d-band center's position is governed by the d-band width, which is influenced by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the active metal's electronic state, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, and facilitating coke diffusion. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and new synthesis methods for precise control of catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry and electronic properties through alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are significant, understanding the dominant factor for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification's impact on adsorbate binding strength can limit catalytic improvements. Perturbing the bonding configuration can overcome this limitation. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations revealing the underlying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strain and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers modify properties, complicating experimental disentanglement. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding differing between mixed Pt and Ru. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, do not act bifunctionally but form a homogeneous new metal. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate-cluster coupling, with Au(111) exhibiting intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface as a relevant case study, demonstrating the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which determine bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-bands' average energy, influenced by strain and ligand effects. Understanding modifications in electronic properties, particularly d-band characteristics, is pivotal for explaining metal surfaces' reactivity. Density functional theory (DFT) enables separate analysis of electronic and geometric effects. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate d-band modifications. This understanding could facilitate the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This would offer a rapid screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can alter the d-band filling, potentially affecting the catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the selectivity of reactions that require specific active metal atom sites. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay could include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, where the geometric arrangement and electronic properties of the metal atoms are tailored to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD, demonstrating altered electronic and geometric properties. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption is less on the alloys than on Pt(111), showing surface properties' influence on adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene was observed on the (2 × 2) alloy, likely due to matching desorption activation energies, suggesting practical catalyst design strategies by controlling Sn concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, reveals the synergistic influence of geometric and electronic effects on catalytic performance. This method, which incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, shows good agreement with DFT calculations, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in the design of more efficient catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, the interplay of geometric and electronic effects enhances catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals does not significantly transfer charge between elements, but the width of the local density of d-states, which is easily calculated, is a key descriptor of site reactivity. This allows for the prediction of alloy site reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties can lead to the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. When two transition metals form an alloy, the change in local d-band center position, and thus reactivity, is largely determined by the width of the localized d-band, a function of alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, achieved by modifying the active metal's state through alloying, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable. Innovative strategies can exploit these effects to design superior catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn modifies the platinum active phase, minimizing structure-sensitive reactions like coking and inhibiting coke formation by increasing the electron density of platinum. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal alloy compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods to control catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altered bonding hybridization from changed bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. Perturbation of the d-band through charge transfer and hybridization affects adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, impacting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification may limit catalytic improvements. To overcome this, the bonding configuration must be altered. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, as highlighted in recent literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal microscopic factors underlying bimetallic system reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu alloys exhibit properties surpassing those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with one species adsorbing one reactant and the other species the other reactant. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. CuPd alloys, due to strong Cu-Pd interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) substrates shows strong coupling in Pd3/Pd(111) and intermediate behavior in Pd3/Au(111), with d-band orbitals exhibiting discrete or delocalized structures.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains reactivity variations through the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate study of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding metal surface reactivity. Correlating the surface d-band width with interatomic matrix elements can estimate d-band modifications. This understanding could streamline d-band characteristic calculations for surfaces, including alloying effects, reducing DFT calculation needs. This would facilitate a rapid screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, addressing the interplay of geometric and electronic effects in enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the arrangement of metal atoms at the surface influences selectivity, particularly in reactions requiring specific surface sites. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can exploit this interplay to enhance selectivity and activity for specific reactions, leading to more efficient catalytic systems than monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights the role of geometric and electronic properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies, suggesting synergy in practical catalysts. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction. These findings imply that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys can optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, potentially screening alloys for catalytic properties. The model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, validating the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. Unlike pure metals, predicting the reactivity of alloys is complex due to additional factors like d-band filling and charge transfer. The d-band model, which describes the width of the local density of d-states, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. X-ray absorption spectroscopy verifies alloy formation and indicates that while there is no significant d-electron transfer, s/p electrons contribute to charge shifts. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties allows for the prediction of chemical reactivity, facilitating the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Geometrically, ensemble effects increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and ensemble size, favoring specific reactions. Electronically, the active metal's state can be altered by intermetallic phases, enhancing catalytic properties. These effects can be harnessed to design superior catalytic systems. For instance, intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites and modify adsorption properties for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions and improving stability for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports, and maintain simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts for dehydrogenation reactions, the addition of Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The formation of PtSn alloy or partial covering of platinum by tin creates smaller ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn weakens ethylidyne adsorption, inhibiting coke formation. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects, resulting in high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay focus on identifying optimal alloy compositions, predicting alloying effects, and controlling catalyst synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    