Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The interplay and exploitation of geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for enhanced catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and altered hybridization from changed bond distances affecting catalytic selectivity and reactivity. Understanding if geometric or electronic effects dominate in a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to similar reactant and product strength changes can be overcome by altering adsorbate bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, which exploit the interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic interaction and strain modify pseudomorphic overlayer properties. Experimentally distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction downshifts the d-band center, reducing CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding strength. CO adsorption differences between Pt and Ru sites are enhanced. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) shows strong substrate-cluster coupling.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on exploiting geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for catalytic enhancement. However, the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface exemplifies how alloy composition can influence catalytic activity, shedding light on the synergistic effects that could lead to more efficient and selective catalytic systems compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals is influenced by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements between adsorbates and surface metal atoms. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate study of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding metal surface reactivity. Correlating the surface d-band width with interatomic matrix elements helps estimate d-band characteristic modifications. This understanding could lead to a fast screening method for potential alloy surfaces, identifying those with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between these effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. The rigid band model, which describes a single d band for the alloy as a whole, has been challenged, suggesting separate d bands for each component. Surface atoms retain chemical differences, with bonding properties altered to some degree. The addition of a group 1B metal decreases the activity of a group 8 metal for carbon-carbon bond rupture in hydrogenolysis reactions, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Geometric factors, like the number of adjacent active metal atoms required for different reactions, play a crucial role in determining selectivity. Bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and high dispersions can exhibit enhanced selectivity for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene, demonstrating how geometric and electronic effects can influence catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys is significantly less than on Pt(111), indicating the impact of surface properties on adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene on the (2 × 2) alloy, due to matching desorption activation energies, suggests that by controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts, it may be possible to optimize their performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys is presented, which could screen alloys for desirable catalytic properties. This scheme integrates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the d-band center, demonstrating remarkable agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys does not lead to substantial charge transfer, but the width of the local density of d-states is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity (Quote 2). This allows for predicting the relative reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. In alloys, additional factors like electronic charge transfer and changes in local d-band filling affect the d-band center position, influencing chemical reactivity (Quote 4). The analysis of XANES spectra for Pt alloys reveals that the formation of alloys changes the width of the d-band localized on Pt due to hybridization with guest elements, without significant charge transfer (Quote 11). The chemical reactivity of alloy sites is governed by the width of the localized d-band, which is a function of alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals (Quote 14). Understanding these relationships enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, achieved by modifying the active metal's electronic state through alloying, improve catalytic properties. Selective (de)hydrogenation benefits from intermetallic phases providing anchoring sites, modifying adsorption properties, and enabling molecular recognition. For oxidation and steam reforming, intermetallic phases suppress side reactions, improve stability, offer O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and have simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The formation of smaller platinum ensembles in PtSn alloys curbs coking, while electronic modification increases electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloying. Alloying impacts electronic properties, enabling charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and altering hybridization due to changes in bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, concerning bonding configuration, and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate interaction strength, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering pathways to optimize catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal the microscopic factors underlying the reactivity of bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, enhancing catalytic selectivity. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, enhancing differences in adsorption energies. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong substrate interaction, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface demonstrates the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, providing insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Metal reactivity in transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which influence bond formation and breaking. Variations in coupling are attributed to d-state and adsorbate orbital interactions, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. DFT calculations enable the separate study of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics, crucial for understanding metal surface reactivity. A correlation exists between d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Establishing this understanding allows for the calculation of d-band characteristics for any surface, including alloying effects, with fewer DFT calculations. This facilitates a rapid screening method for potential alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal alters the d-band filling, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability and nature of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies include designing bimetallic catalysts with controlled surface compositions and dispersion, optimizing the balance between electronic and geometric effects for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights the role of electronic and geometric properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface properties influence adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys using the surface d-band center as a parameter shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations, validating its descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems. This supports the notion that the d-band center can be used to screen alloys for desirable catalytic properties, potentially leading to the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys, without significant charge transfer between elements, leads to a unique descriptor of chemical reactivity based on the width of the local density of d-states. This allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on their geometric structure and electronic properties. By understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties, innovative strategies can be developed to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The position of the d-band center in alloys is largely determined by the width of the localized d-band, which is a function of alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, enabling the prediction of chemical reactivity for various sites in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance. Geometrically, the ensemble effect increases selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size, favoring specific reactions. Electronically, the active metal's state can be altered by intermetallic phases, enhancing catalytic properties. These effects can be strategically utilized to design superior catalytic systems over monometallic catalysts. For instance, intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and serve as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To fully understand intermetallic catalysts, research should focus on high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing metal sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The formation of a PtSn alloy creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption on Pt atoms near Sn. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or altering electronic properties by alloying. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, but understanding which is dominant for a specific reaction aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects concern adsorbate interaction strength with the metal surface (Quote 2). Perturbation of the d-band through charge transfer and hybridization influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. To optimize catalysis, adsorbate bonding configuration must be perturbed. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers (Quote 9).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, as identified through electronic structure calculations. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. Bimetallic systems exhibit unique properties; PtRu surpasses pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding varying between Pt and Ru. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals discrete and delocalized d-band orbitals, indicating significant but varying electronic coupling.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks detailed strategies on exploiting geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys for catalytic enhancement. However, it highlights the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating how alloy composition can synergistically influence catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, which determine metal atoms' bonding capabilities. The d-band model attributes reactivity variations to the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals, influenced by d-band energy sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these principles could lead to a fast screening method for potential alloy surfaces, identifying those with desired chemical properties, significantly reducing the need for extensive DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys, such as those between group 8 and group 1B metals, significantly impact catalytic performance. Electronically, the d-band filling changes when a group 8 metal like nickel, with an incomplete d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a full d band. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For reactions requiring specific active metal atom sites, the inclusion of inactive atoms can lead to selectivity effects. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene layers in TPD. This highlights how electronic and geometric properties of the alloyed surface can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Notably, less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed on the alloys to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption compared to Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on reactant adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion to butene was observed on the (2 × 2) alloy, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, suggesting that controlling Sn concentration can optimize catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate changes in chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, demonstrating good agreement with DFT calculations on binary alloys. This supports the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems, potentially aiding in screening alloys for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance by modifying the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, influenced by alloy geometry and d-orbital spatial extent, is a key descriptor of chemical reactivity, allowing prediction of alloy site reactivity. This interplay can be exploited to design superior catalytic systems over monometallic catalysts, as evidenced by the lack of significant charge transfer in Pt alloys and the predictive capacity of the d-band model for alloy reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, like ensemble effects, increase selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, while electronic effects improve catalytic properties by altering the active metal's electronic state, controllable by the choice of a second metal. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, and for oxidation and steam reforming, they suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors of active components. To develop a comprehensive understanding of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable. This knowledge facilitates the design of efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing support acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations to predict alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in transition-metal alloys is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes and altering electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, with charge transfer and altered hybridization due to changes in bond distances between metals. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects, referring to bonding configurations (Quote 2), and electronic effects, impacting adsorbate-metal surface interactions, are pivotal. Perturbation of the d-band, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density near the Fermi level. Limitations in catalysis improvement due to electronic effects can be overcome by perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers (Quote 9), offering pathways to tailor reaction selectivity and tune reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal factors underlying bimetallic reactivity, showing that interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity. Geometric effects must be considered with ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Electronic and chemical properties of pseudomorphic overlayers are modified by electronic interaction and strain. Experimentally, distinguishing strain from electronic interaction is challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys offer bifunctional mechanisms, with one species adsorbing one reactant and the other species the other reactant. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, enhancing differences rather than leading to intermediate behavior. Similar results for CO adsorption on CuPd alloys are found in electronic structure calculations. PdCu interaction leads to weaker CO binding to Pd and stronger interaction with Cu, forming a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong cluster-substrate coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into enhancing performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by geometric and electronic effects. The d-band model attributes reactivity variations to the coupling of metal d-states and adsorbate orbitals, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation exists between the surface d-band width for transition metals and interatomic matrix elements, describing bonding interactions. Understanding these principles could streamline d-band characteristic calculations for any surface, including alloying effects, reducing reliance on DFT. This would facilitate rapid screening of alloy surfaces for desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new pathway for hydrogenation, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed layers of H and 1,3-butadiene in TPD, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys is significantly less than on Pt(111), indicating the influence of surface properties on adsorption and reaction. The highest conversion from 1,3-butadiene to butene was observed on the (2 × 2) alloy, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, leading to high reactant coverages at high temperatures. This synergy could be exploited in practical catalysts by controlling the Sn concentration, suggesting that by carefully controlling the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts, it may be possible to optimize their performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, potentially aiding in screening alloys for catalytic properties. The model's results align well with DFT calculations on binary alloys, highlighting the d-band center's descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The hybridization of d-orbitals in alloys, without significant charge transfer, makes the width of the local density of d-states a key descriptor of chemical reactivity. This allows for predicting the reactivity of alloy sites based on their geometric structure and electronic properties, enabling the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass traditional monometallic catalysts. The position of the d-band center in alloys is governed by the alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, which can be predicted, facilitating the development of innovative catalytic strategies.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the catalyst surface geometry and modifying the active metal's electronic state. Ensemble effects, a geometric phenomenon, increase selectivity by reducing surface coordination and ensemble size. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, improve catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation, while suppressing side reactions, improving stability, providing O2 adsorption sites, and acting as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are recommended.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys significantly enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. The addition of Sn to Pt modifies the active phase and support, suppressing unwanted reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The formation of PtSn alloys creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations, and precise synthesis methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes and altering electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to orbital energy differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding which dominates in selectivity control for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects pertain to adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, comprising charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Innovative strategies, including intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for improved catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations aiding in identifying factors underlying reactivity. Interatomic distance modifications significantly affect catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. Bimetallic systems like PtRu exhibit properties beyond those of pure components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. The strong interaction of Ru with Pt reduces CO binding energy, and mixing Pt and Ru enhances differences in CO adsorption energies. CuPd alloys form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on metal substrates reveals strong coupling with Pd(111) and intermediate behavior with Au(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface, illustrating how alloy composition impacts catalytic activity. This example is pertinent to understanding the synergistic effects of geometric and electronic influences in transition-metal alloys on catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements between adsorbates and surface atoms. Variations in coupling are attributed to the d-band model, influenced by the average energy of d-bands, sensitive to strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects on surface reactivity. The correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element offers a method to estimate d-band characteristic modifications. Understanding these principles could lead to a fast screening process for potential alloy surfaces, identifying those with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal like nickel with a group 1B metal like copper results in a d band filled to a greater extent than in pure nickel, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites for catalysis, impacting selectivity. For instance, reactions requiring multiple adjacent active metal atoms are more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive atoms than those requiring single atoms. Innovative strategies, such as developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, can optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, leading to more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene during heating of coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, demonstrating how electronic and geometric properties can alter catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The (2 × 2) alloy shows the highest conversion to butene, likely due to matching desorption activation energies of H2 and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the synergy in catalytic systems. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence. These findings suggest that by controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys, it may be possible to design catalysts with enhanced performance, selectivity, and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys uses the surface d-band center to incorporate chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects. This parameter's descriptive power supports its use in screening alloys for catalytic properties, with results aligning well with DFT calculations across various binary alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. The d-band width, not significant charge transfer, governs the chemical reactivity of alloy sites. This allows for predicting the relative reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. Understanding the relationship between alloy geometry and d-band properties enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. The d-band center position in alloys can be predicted based on bond distance and spatial extent of d-orbitals, facilitating the design of advanced catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly influence catalytic performance. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects modify the active metal's state, improving catalytic properties, and can be controlled by selecting a suitable second metal. Exploiting these effects enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and facilitate molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, enhance stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To advance the chemistry of intermetallic catalysts, studies should ensure high phase purity, use inert supports or bulk materials, and maintain simple reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in PtSn-based transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn addition modifies the platinum active phase and support, suppressing unwanted reactions, minimizing sintering, and facilitating coke species diffusion. The PtSn alloy formation creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking. Electronic modification of Pt by Sn inhibits coke formation by increasing electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimum Pt3Sn ratio balances geometric and electronic effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies to exploit this interplay include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical calculations, and precise synthesis methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance in transition-metal alloys is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes and altering electronic properties by alloy formation or promoter addition. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. Understanding if geometric or electronic effects dominate selectivity for specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configurations, while electronic effects concern adsorbate-metal surface interactions. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. Electronic effects can limit catalytic improvements, necessitating bonding configuration perturbation. Innovative strategies, like intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, exploit this interplay for enhanced catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance, with electronic structure calculations aiding in identifying reactivity factors. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior. Strain and electronic interactions in pseudomorphic overlayers modify properties, with experimental disentanglement challenging. Strong Ru-Pt interaction reduces CO binding energy. Bimetallic alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, with CO binding differing between mixed Pt and Ru sites. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) reveals strong substrate-cluster coupling, with supported Pd3/Au(111) showing intermediate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface highlights the synergistic effects of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "Transition and noble metals' reactivity is governed by surface properties, including the d-band center, d-band filling, and adsorbate-metal coupling, which are influenced by strain and ligand effects. The d-band model explains variations in coupling between adsorbates and metal atoms. Density functional theory (DFT) enables the separate study of electronic and geometric effects on d-band characteristics. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix elements can estimate modifications in d-band properties. This understanding could lead to a new screening method for identifying alloy surfaces with desired chemical properties, significantly reducing the need for DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys can synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, when a group 8 metal like nickel, which has an incompletely filled d band, is alloyed with a group 1B metal like copper, which has a filled d band, the d band of the alloy is filled to a greater extent than that of the pure group 8 metal. This can alter the electronic structure and bonding properties of the alloy, potentially affecting its catalytic activity and selectivity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface can influence the availability and nature of active sites for catalysis. For instance, if one reaction requires a surface site consisting of a number of adjacent active metal atoms, while another requires a site consisting of only one active metal atom, the former will be more sensitive to the inclusion of inactive foreign metal atoms in the surface. This can lead to selectivity effects, where the addition of a group 1B metal to a group 8 metal can decrease the activity of the latter for reactions requiring multiplets of active metal atoms, while having a smaller effect on other reactions. Innovative strategies to exploit this interplay include the development of highly dispersed bimetallic clusters, where the dispersion of metal atoms can be controlled to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects. By varying the composition and dispersion of bimetallic clusters, it may be possible to design more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene, demonstrating how geometric and electronic effects influence catalytic reactivity and selectivity. The reduced amount of preadsorbed hydrogen needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys, compared to Pt(111), indicates the impact of surface properties on adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalytic performance, potentially by tuning the Sn concentration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys, which integrates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects through the surface d-band center, shows remarkable agreement with DFT calculations, validating its descriptive power for a broad range of alloy systems. This supports the notion that the d-band center is a key parameter in understanding catalytic properties of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure. The hybridization of d-orbitals doesn't significantly transfer charge but widens the local density of d-states, a key descriptor of chemical reactivity (Quote 2). This interplay allows for the prediction of alloy sites' reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties. In alloys, additional factors like electronic charge transfer between elements affect the d-band center, influencing catalytic efficiency (Quote 4). Understanding these relationships enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts. When two transition metals form an alloy, the d-band center's position, and thus reactivity, is governed by the alloy's geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance and selectivity. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, favoring allowed reactions. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the electronic state of the active metal, improving catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases provide anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O2 adsorption sites, and act as precursors for oxidation and steam reforming. To understand intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable. These insights suggest intermetallic compounds have high potential as catalyst materials, outperforming conventional inorganic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "In PtSn-based catalysts, geometric and electronic effects synergistically enhance dehydrogenation reactions, suppressing unwanted side reactions, minimizing metal sintering, and improving coke species diffusion. The formation of a PtSn alloy creates smaller platinum ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn increases electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for alloy compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying impacts, and precise synthesis methods for controlled catalyst structure.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Catalytic performance of metal nanoparticles is enhanced by modifying surface geometry through particle size changes or electronic properties by alloy formation. Alloying impacts electronic properties, involving charge transfer between elements due to valence orbital differences and changes in metal bonding hybridization from altered bond distances. While both geometric and electronic effects are crucial, understanding the dominant factor for selectivity control in specific reactions aids in designing superior catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2014.07.016"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Geometric effects involve bonding configuration, while electronic effects alter adsorbate interaction strength. D-band perturbation, through charge transfer and hybridization, influences adsorption behavior. Charge transfer stabilizes d-orbitals, affecting d-orbital density. However, electronic modification's impact on adsorbate binding strength can limit catalytic improvements. To overcome this, perturbing the adsorbate's bonding configuration is necessary. Innovative strategies include intermetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and coadsorbed structural modifiers, offering enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.7b03228_0"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically enhance catalytic performance. Electronic structure calculations reveal the underlying reactivity factors in bimetallic systems. Interatomic distance modifications significantly impact catalytic activity, necessitating consideration alongside ensemble and ligand effects. PtRu exhibits properties beyond those of its components, while PdCu shows intermediate behavior, acting as a novel metal. Bimetallic surface alloys enable bifunctional mechanisms, where different species adsorb reactants for desired reactions. Mixing Pt and Ru alters CO binding, enhancing differences in adsorption energies. CuPd alloys, due to strong interaction, form a homogeneous new metal with intermediate properties. Electronic coupling analysis of Pd clusters on Au(111) and Pd(111) demonstrates the influence of substrate interaction on cluster properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights a gap in understanding how geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. A case study on the electrooxidation of CO and H2/CO mixtures on a Pt3Sn electrode surface illustrates the impact of alloy composition on catalytic activity, offering insights into the synergistic effects sought for improved catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/j100022a002"},
{"DOC": "The reactivity of transition and noble metals, influenced by surface properties like the d-band center, d-band filling, and coupling matrix elements, is pivotal for catalytic performance. Variations in coupling between adsorbates and surface metal atoms, explained by the d-band model, are sensitive to factors like strain and ligand effects. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations enable the separate determination of electronic and geometric effects, crucial for understanding surface reactivity. A correlation between the surface d-band width and interatomic matrix element can estimate modifications in d-band characteristics. This understanding could lead to a new screening method for potential alloy surfaces, allowing the calculation of d-band characteristics with reduced DFT calculations, facilitating the identification of surfaces with desired chemical properties.", "Doi": "10.1080/08927022.2010.481794"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance. Electronically, alloying a group 8 metal with a group 1B metal fills the d band more than in the pure group 8 metal, affecting catalytic activity. Geometrically, the presence of inactive foreign metal atoms can influence the availability of active sites, impacting selectivity. Innovative strategies include developing highly dispersed bimetallic clusters to optimize the balance between electronic and geometric effects, potentially leading to more efficient and selective catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ar50109a003"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Sn with Pt(111) opens a new hydrogenation pathway, selectively producing butene from coadsorbed H and 1,3-butadiene, highlighting the role of electronic and geometric properties in altering catalytic reactivity and selectivity. Less preadsorbed hydrogen is needed to block 1,3-butadiene chemisorption on the alloys compared to Pt(111), indicating surface property influence on reactant adsorption and reaction. These findings suggest that controlling the composition and structure of transition-metal alloys could optimize catalytic performance for specific reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.12.006"},
{"DOC": "A scheme for estimating oxygen binding energies on transition metal surface alloys is presented, which could screen alloys for catalytic properties. This scheme, using the surface d-band center as a parameter, effectively incorporates chemical composition, strain, and ligand effects, demonstrating its descriptive power for a wide range of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2005.07.018"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys significantly impact catalytic performance by altering the local electronic structure and chemical reactivity. Unlike pure metals, alloys exhibit complex behavior due to the hybridization of d-orbitals without significant charge transfer between elements, as highlighted in quote [2]. The width of the local density of d-states, a descriptor of chemical reactivity, varies with alloy geometry and the spatial extent of d-orbitals, as noted in quote [4]. This interplay allows for the prediction of alloy site reactivity based on geometric structure and electronic properties, as explained in quote [14]. Understanding these relationships enables the design of more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that surpass monometallic catalysts in performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9448-1"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys enhance catalytic performance, selectivity, and reactivity compared to monometallic catalysts. The ensemble effect, a geometric phenomenon, increases selectivity by reducing the coordination number and size of metal ensembles, disfavoring reactions that require large ensembles. Electronic effects, controlled by the choice of a second metal, alter the active metal's electronic state, impacting catalytic properties. Intermetallic phases offer anchoring sites, modify adsorption properties, and enable molecular recognition for selective (de)hydrogenation. They also suppress side reactions, improve stability, provide O₂ adsorption sites, and act as precursors for active components in oxidation and steam reforming. To develop a comprehensive understanding of intermetallic catalysts, high phase purity, inert supports, and simple reaction conditions are desirable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b02603"},
{"DOC": "Geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys, particularly PtSn, enhance catalytic performance for dehydrogenation reactions. Sn modifies the Pt active phase and support, suppressing hydrogenolysis and isomerization, minimizing sintering, neutralizing acidity, and facilitating coke diffusion. The PtSn alloy creates smaller Pt ensembles, curbing coking, while electronic modification by Sn increases electron density, weakening ethylidyne adsorption. An optimal Pt3Sn ratio balances these effects for high activity and selectivity. Strategies include high-throughput screening for optimal compositions, theoretical predictions of alloying effects, and precise synthesis methods for alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    